# Logic and Proofs  
## 1.1 Propositions and Connectives   
### Conetent  
* A proposition is a sentence that has exactly one truth value. It is eiher true, which we denote by T, of false, which we denote by F.  
* A tautology is a propositional form that is true for every assignment of truth values to its components. 
### Exercises  
* Skip.  

## 1.2 Conditionals and Biconditionals  
* For $P$ and $Q$, then `conditional sentence` $P \rightarrow Q$ is the proposition "If P, then Q". $P \rightarrow Q$ is true iff $P$ is false or $Q$ is true.  
* The `converse` of $P \rightarrow Q$ is $Q \rightarrow P$, the `contrapositive` of $P \rightarrow Q$ is $(\sim Q) \rightarrow (\sim P)$.  
* The `biconditional` setence $P \leftrightarrows Q$ is the proposition "$P$ iff $Q$". Then sentence $P \leftrightarrows Q$ is true iff $P$ and $Q$ have the same truth values.  
### Exercises  
* Skip.  

## 1.3 Quantified Statements  
### Content  
* A sentence contains variables is called an `open sentence` or `predicate` and becomes a proposition only when its variables are assigned specific values. For example, $x \ge 3$ is true when $x$  is given the value 7 and false when $x$ is 2.  
* The collection of objects that may be substituted to make an open sentence a true proposition is called the `truth set` of the sentence.  
* a `universe of discourse` is what objects available in a sentence. For example, the truth set of $x^2 < 5$ depends on the collection of objects we choose for the universe of discourse. If $N$, the set is $[1,2]$. If $Z$, is $[-2,-1,0,1,2]$.  
* With a universe specified, two open sentences $P(x)$ and $Q(x)$ are `equivalent` if they have the same truth set.  
* $P(x)$ is an open sentence. $(\exist x)P(x)$ is true if the truth set of $P(x)$ is `not empty`.  
* The sentence of $(\forall x)P(x)$ is true if the truth set of $P(x)$ is `the entire universe`.  
* Two `quantified sentences` are `equivalent` in a given universe if they have the `same truth value`(`or truth set?`) in that universe. Two quantified sentences are quivalent if they are `equivalent` in every universe.  For example $(\forall x)(x > 3)$ and $(\forall x)(x \ge 4)$ are equivalent in $Z$.  
* The  symbol $\exist !$ is called the `unique existential quantifier`. For an open sentence $P(x)$, the sentence $(\exist !x)P(x)$ is true  if the truth set of $P(x)$ has ``exactly one element``.  

### Exapmle  
* "All $P(x)$ are $Q(x)$" should be $(\forall x)(P(x) \rightarrow Q(x))$.  
* "Some $P(x)$ are $Q(x)$" should be $(\exist x)(P(x) \wedge Q(x))$.  
* "Every element of the set $A$ has the property $P$" should be $(\forall x \in A)P(x)$.  

### Theorem 1.3.1  
* $\sim(\forall x)A(x)$ is equivalent to $(\exist x)\sim A(x)$.  
**Prove:** $\sim(\forall x)A(x)$ is true `iff` $(\forall x)A(x)$ is false `iff` the truth set of $A(x)$ is empty in the universe `iff` the truth set of $\sim A(x)$ is not empty `iff` there is some objects in the universe such that $\sim A(x)$ `iff` $(\exist x)\sim A(x)$.  
* $\sim (\exist x)A(x)$ is equivalent to $(\forall x)\sim A(x)$.  
**Prove:** $(\forall x)\sim A(x) = ~ \sim \sim (\forall x)\sim A(x) = ~ \sim (\sim (\forall x)\sim A(x))$.  
Now think $\sim A(x)$ is a $Q(x)$, use $\sim(\forall x)Q(x)$ is equivalent to $(\exist x)\sim Q(x)$. Then we have $~ \sim (\sim (\forall x)\sim A(x)) =~ \sim (\exist x)A(x) = (\forall x)\sim A(x)$.  

### Theorem 1.3.2  
* $(\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow (\exist x)A(x)$.  
**Prove:** $(\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow$ the truth set of $A(x)$ has exactly one element $\rightarrow$ the truth set of $A(x)$ is not empty $\rightarrow (\exist x)A(x)$.  
* $(\exist !x)A(x) = (\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z]$  
**Prove:** First show $(\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow (\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z]$: if $(\exist !x)A(x)$ is true, then in this universe the truth set of $A(x)$ just has one element, thus $(\exist x)A(x)$ is true. Continuously prove $(\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z]$ in same condition. This is a open sentence, we must show the truth set exists of the sentence and the truth set is exactly the truth set of $(\exist !x)A(x)$. Suppose $y$ and $z$ is in the truth set of $(\exist !x)A(x)$, thus $A(y) \wedge  A(z)$ is true, and because the the truth set of $(\exist !x)A(x)$ just has one element, then $y = z$ is also true. Then $(\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow (\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z]$ is true.  
Second show $(\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z] \rightarrow (\exist !x)A(x)$: we could rewrite this sentence to better prove. The sentence to prove is equivalent to $\sim (\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow ~ \sim ((\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z])$(accordting to $P \rightarrow Q = \sim Q \rightarrow \sim P$). Since $\sim (\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow$ there is no elenment satisfy $A ~ \vee$ there are at least two elements satisfy $A$. The sentence "There is no elenment satisfy A" $= (\forall x)\sim A(x)$. The sentence "there are at least two elements satisfy A" $= (\exist z)(\exist y)[(A(y) \wedge A(z))~ \wedge ~(y \ne z)]$(Why?).  
Then $(\forall x)\sim A(x) \vee (\exist z)(\exist y)[(A(y) \wedge A(z))~ \wedge ~(y \ne z)] = ~ \sim (\exist x)A(x) ~ \vee ~\sim (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z] ~ = ~ \sim ((\exist x)A(x) ~\wedge ~ (\forall y)(\forall z)[A(y)~ \wedge ~A(z) \rightarrow y = z]) = ~ \sim (\exist !x)A(x)$.  

### Exercises  
10. Which of the following are true in the universe of all real numbers?  
**(a)** $(\forall y)(\exist x)(x + y = 0)$.  
True. $y \in R$, $-1 \in R$, $-1 * y \in R$, let $x = -1 * y$, $x + y = -1*y + y = 0$.  
**(d)** $(\forall x)[x > 0 \rightarrow (\exist y)(y < 0 \wedge xy > 0)]$.  
False. $x > 0$ is not empty in $R$, but the truth set of $(\exist y)(y < 0 \wedge xy > 0)$ is empty in $R$, then fasle.  
**(f)** $(\exist x)(\forall y)(x \leq y)$.  
True. Let $x = y + 0 \vee x = y - 0.001$, then the truth set of $(\exist x)(\forall y)(x \leq y)$ is not empty.  
**(i)** $(\exist !x)(\forall y)(x = y^2)$.  
True. 

11. Let A(x) be a open sentence with variable x.  
**(d)** Prove that $(\exist !x)A(x) = (\exist x)[A(x) \wedge (\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)]$.  
First to show $(\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow (\exist x)[A(x) \wedge (\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)]$. Obviously, $(\exist x)A(x)$ is true. Now show $(\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)$. If $y$ not satisfy $A$, thus $A(y) \rightarrow x = y$ empty true. If $y$ is in the truth set of $(\exist !x)A(x)$, then there just one element in the truth set, we could easily get x = y which means $(\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)$ is true.  
Second to show $(\exist x)[A(x) \wedge (\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)] \rightarrow (\exist !x)A(x)$. Rewrite the sentence to $~ \sim (\exist !x)A(x) \rightarrow ~ \sim (\exist x)[A(x) \wedge (\forall y)(A(y) \rightarrow x = y)]$. The provement is like Theorem 1.3.2 (b), skip.  

13. Which of the following are denials of $(\exist !x)P(x)$.  
**(d):** $\sim (\forall x)(\forall y)[(P(x) \wedge P(y)) \rightarrow x = y]$.  
True. $\sim (\forall x)(\forall y)[(P(x) \wedge P(y)) \rightarrow x = y] = (\exist x)(\exist y)[(P(x) \wedge P(y)) \wedge x \ne y]$. If the truth set of the sentence is not empty, it's obviously that there are at least two elements satisfy $A$.  

## 1.4 Basic Proof Method I  
### Content  
* In any proof at any time: state an axion, an assumption, or a previously proved result.  
* Use the tautology rule: state a sentece is a tautology. For example, such as in some proofs, say $x > 0$ or $x \le 0$ is always right.  
* State a sentence equivalent to any statement earlier in the proof.  

### Example  
* $P \rightarrow (Q \vee R) = (P ~ \wedge ~ \sim Q) \rightarrow R = (P ~ \wedge ~ \sim R) \rightarrow R$.  

### Exercises  
Skip.  

## 1.5 Basic Proof Method II  
### Exercises  
10. Prove that $\sqrt{5}$ is not a rational number.  
**Proof:** Suppose $\sqrt{5}$ is rational number. Then $\sqrt{5} = p/q$, $p$ and $q$ have no common factor. $\sqrt{5} = \frac{p}{q} \rightarrow 5 = p^2/q^2 \rightarrow p^2 = 5q^2$. $p, q \in Z \rightarrow p^2, q^2 \in N$. Let $x = 5q^2$, then $x$ must have a prime factor of $5$, suppose $p$ not have a prime factor of $5$, then $p^2$ also have a prime factor of $5$, beacuse $p^2 = 5q^2 = x$, it's a contracition with the unique factorization theorem, thus $p$ have a prime factor of 5. So $p^2 = (5m)^2 = 25m^2 \rightarrow 25m^2 = 5q^2 \rightarrow 5m^2=q^2 \rightarrow q$ have a prime factor of $5$, but $q$ and $p$ not have a common factor, thus it's a contradiction.  

## 1.6 Proofs Involving Quantifiers  
### Examples  
* If $a$, $b$ and $c$ are integers, and $c$ divides $a$ and $c$ divides $b$, then $c$ divides every linear combination of a and b.  
**Proof:** $a = ck$ and $b = fk$, $da + eb = dkc + efc = (dk + ef)c$.  
* Prove that polynomial $r(x) = x^{71} - 2x^{39} + 5x - 0.3$ has a real zero.  
**Proof:** Skip.  

### Exercises  
1. Prove that in integers.  
(f) if there exist integers $m$ and $n$ such that $12m + 15n = 1$, then $m$ and $n$ are both positive.  
**Prove:** Let 'there exist integers $m$ and $n$ such that $12m + 15n = 1$' is sentence $P$, $P\rightarrow Q$ when $P$ is false or $Q$ is true. Now obviously $P$ is false, then (f) is true.  
3. Prove that if every even natural number greater than 2 is the sum of two primes, then every odd natural number greater than 5 is the sum of three primes.  
**Prove:** Suppose $n \ge 3$, then $n = i + j$ which $i,j$ are primes depending on the condition of the question. $m = n + 2 \ge 5 \rightarrow m = i + j + 2$. $i, j$ and $2$ are three primes, this is what we want to prove.  
5. (a) Prove that the nautral number $x$ is prime iff $x > 1$ and there is no positive number greater than $1$ and less or equal to $\sqrt{x}$ that divides x.  
**Prove:** If $x$ is prime, then obviously the second sentence is true. Now prove that if $x > 1$ and there is no positive number greater than $1$ and less or equal to $\sqrt{x}$ that divides x, then $x$ is prime. Suppose $x$ is not prime then exist $n < x,m < x$ such that $nm = x$. According to the condition sentence we have $\sqrt{x} < n, m < x \rightarrow n * m > \sqrt{x} * \sqrt{x} = x \rightarrow n * m > x$ which is a contradiction.  
(b) Prove that if $p$ is a prime number and $p \ne 3$, then $3$ divides $p^2 + 2$. (Hint: When $p$ is divided by 3, the remainder is 0, 1, and 2.)   
**Prove:** $p$ is a prime number and $p \ne 3$, then $p$ could not be divided by $3 \rightarrow p = 3k + 1$ or $p = 3k + 2$. So $p^2 + 2 = 9k^2 + 6k + 3 = 3(3k^2 + 2 + 1)$ or $p^2 + 2 = 9k^2 + 12k + 6 = 3(3k^2 + 4 + 2)$.  
8. Show by example that each of the following deductions involving multiple quantifiers is not valid.  
(c) $[(\forall x)P(x) \rightarrow (\forall x)Q(x)] \rightarrow (\forall x)[P(x) \rightarrow Q(x)]$.  
**Answer:** $[(\forall x)P(x) \rightarrow (\forall x)Q(x)]$ must be true and $(\forall x)[P(x) \rightarrow Q(x)]$ must be false. $(\forall x)P(x)$ is false $\rightarrow [(\forall x)P(x) \rightarrow (\forall x)Q(x)]$ is true. Now we could set $P(x)$ is $x > 0$ in $R$. If we want $(\forall x)[P(x) \rightarrow Q(x)]$ false then $(\exist x)[P(x)  \wedge \sim Q(x)]$ true. Set $\sim Q(x)$ be $x > 1$, thus $Q(x) = x \le 1$. Consider $(\forall x)[x > 0 \rightarrow x \le 1]$, this sentence is obviously false.  

## 1.7 Strategies for Constructing Proofs  
### Content  
* $P \rightarrow Q_1 \vee Q_2 = P\wedge \sim Q_1 \rightarrow Q_2 = P\wedge \sim Q_2 \rightarrow Q_1$.  
* $(\exist !x)P(x)$. First prove that there is such an object, then there is only one such object. For example, first prove exist object with some property, then (1) prove any object with such property are equal or (2) derive a contradiction from the assumption that two distinct objects have the property or (3) prove that every object with the property is equal to some specified object.  
### Exercises  
3. Prove that  
(c) The sum of five consecutive integers is always divisible by 5.  
**Prove:** The remainder of all integers divided by 5 are $0,1,2,3,4$. Suppose $x = 5k + r$ which r is the remainder. $\forall x \in Z$, if the remainder $r$ is $0$, then (c) true. If $1\le r \le 4$, now consider $x + m = 5k + r + m$, which $m + r = 5$ or $m + r = 0\rightarrow x + m$ could be divided by 5. Then $-4 \le m \le 4$ and we have $x - 4 \le x + m \le x + 4$ and $x,m \in Z$ which means that the number $y \in [x - 4, x + 4]$, and those numbers are 4 continuous integers around $x$. This is what we want to prove.  
(d) $n^3 - n$ is divisible by 6, for all integers $n$.  
**Prove:** $n^3 - n = n(n - 1)(n + 1)$, like (c) two five consecutive integers is always divisible by 2, and three consecutive integers divisible by 3, accordint to unique factorization theorem, then three consecutive integers divisible by 6.  
(f) Every four-digit palindrome number is divisible by $11$. (A palindrome number is a number that reads the same forward and backward.)  
**Prove:** Suppose $xyyx$ is the palindrome number, and of course $x \ne 0$. Let $xyyx = x000 + y00 + y0 + x \rightarrow (x000 + y00 + y0 + x)/11 = x000/11 + y00/11 + y0/11 + x/11$. And $x000/11 = (x - 1)(x - 10)(x - 1)*11 + \frac{11 - x}{11}, y00/11 = (y - 1)(y - 10)*11 + \frac{y}{11}, y0/11 = (y - 1)*11 + \frac{11 - y}{11}, x/11 = \frac{x}{11}$. Then $x000/11 + y00/11 + y0/11 + x/11 = (x - 1)(x - 10)(x - 1)*11 + \frac{11 - x}{11} + (y - 1)(y - 10)*11 + \frac{y}{11} + (y - 1)*11 + \frac{x}{11} = (x - 1)(x - 10)(x - 1)*11 + (y - 1)(y - 10)*11 + (y - 1)*11 + 11*2 = 11*k$.  
(h) If $p$ is a prime integer, then $p + 19$ is composite.(Composite number is not prime number.)  
**Prove:** $p$ is a prime $\rightarrow p$ is not even $\rightarrow p$ is odd $\rightarrow p = 2k + 1 \rightarrow p + 19 = 2k + 20 = 2(k + 10)$.  

## 1.8 Proofs from Number Theory  
### Content  
* Definition of GCD.  
Let $a$ and $b$ be nonzero integers. We say the integer $d$ is the greatest common divisor(gcd) of $a$ and $b$, and write $d = gcd(a,b)$, if (i) $d$ is a common divisor of $a$ and $b$. (ii) every common divisor $c$ of $a$ and $b$ is less than or equal to $d$.  

* Deifinition of coprime.  
If gcd($a$,$b$) = 1, call $a$ and $b$ are coprime.  

* The Least Common Multiple Number  
For nonzero integer $a$ and $b$, the integer n is a common multiple of $a$ and $b$ if $a$ divides $n$ and $b$ divides $n$. We say that the positive integer $m$ is the least common multiple of $a$ and $b$, written as $lcm(a, b)$, if (i) $m$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b$, (ii) if $n$ is a positive common multiple of $a$ and $b$, then $m \le n$.  

### Theorem 1.8.1  
Let $a$ and $b$ be nonzero integers. The gcd of $a$ and $b$ is the smallest positive linear combination of $a$ and $b$.  

### Euclid's Lemma  
Let $a, b$ and $p$ be integers. If $p$ is a prime and $p$ divides $ab$, then $p$ divides $a$ or $p$ divides $b$.  

### The Division Algorithm (See Theorem 2.5.1)  
For all integers $a$ and $b$, with $a \ne 0$, there exist unique integers $q$ and $r$ such that $b = aq + r$ and $0 \le r < |a|$. $a$ is the divisor, $b$ is the dividend, $q$ is the quotient, and $r$ is the remainder.  

### Exercises 
2. Let $a$ and $b$ be positvie integers, and let $r$ be the nonzero remainder when $b$ is divided by $a$. Prove that when $-b$ is divided by $a$, the remainder is $a - r$.  
**Prove:** $b = aq + r \rightarrow b - r = aq \rightarrow b - r + a = a(q + 1) \rightarrow - b + r - a = -a(q + 1) \rightarrow -b = -a(q + 1) + (a - r) \rightarrow -b = -(q + 1)a + (a - r)$. Quotient is $-(q + 1)$, remainder is $0 \le (a - r) < a$.  

7. Let $a, b$ and $c$ be natural numbers and $gcd(a,b) = d$. Prove that  
(a) $a$ divides $b$ iff $d = a$.  
**Prove:** If $a$ divides $b$, and because $a$ divides $a$, then $a \le d$. Because $d$ divides $a$, then $d \le a$. So $a \le d$ and $a \ge d$, we have $a = d$. The rest skip.  
(b) if $a$ divides $bc$ and $d = 1$, then $a$ divides $c$.  
**Prove:** Use Theorem 1.8.1, $sa + tb = 1 \rightarrow sac + tbc = c$. Because $a$ divides $sac$ and $a$ divides $tbc$, we have $a$ divides $sac + tbc$, thus $a$ divides $c$.  
(c) if $c$ divides $a$ and $c$ divides $b$, then $gcd(a/c,b/c) = d/c$. In particular, $gcd(a/d,b/d) = 1$.  
**Prove:** Obviously, $d/c$ divdes $a/c$ and $b/c$, so $d/c \le gcd(a/c,b/c)$. According to condition of question, $d = sa + tb \rightarrow d/c = sa/c + tb/c$, then $d/c$ is a linear combination of $a/c$ and $b/c$, thus $gcd(a/c,b/c)$ divides $d/c \rightarrow d/c \ge gcd(a/c,b/c) \rightarrow d/c = gcd(a/c,b/c)$.  

9. Prove that for every prime p and for all natural number a.  
(a) $gcd(p, a) = p$ iff $p$ divides $a$.  
**Prove:** If $p$ divides $a \rightarrow a = sp$, and $p$ divides $p$, have $p \le gcd(p, a)$. Then $a - (s-1)p = p$ is a linear combination of $a$ and $p$, thus $gcd(p, a)$ divides $p \rightarrow p \ge gcd(p, a) \rightarrow p = gcd(p, a)$. The rest skip.  

10. Let $q$ be an natural number greater than 1 with property of that $q$ divides $a$ or $q$ divides $b$ whenever $q$ divides $ab$. Prove that $q$ is prime.  
**Prove:** According to the condition, we could have the universe of $q, a$, and $b$ are $x \ge 1$ and $x \in N$. Consider the sentence of the property of $q$, let the symbol $P_1(x,b)$ denote the sentence of "$q$ divides $b$", $P_2(x,a)$ denote "$q$ divides $a$", $P_3(x,a,b)$ for "$q$ divides $ab$", $Q(x)$ for "$q$ is prime". We have $(\forall x)[((\forall a, b)(P(x,a,b))) \rightarrow Q] = \sim (\exist x)[((\forall a,b)(P(x, a, b))) ~ \wedge ~ \sim Q(x)]$. Now we should prove $(\exist x)[((\forall a,b)(P(x, a, b))) ~ \wedge ~ \sim Q(x)]$ is false. Suppose $p$ in the universe such that $p = e*f$ is not prime which $e,f$ are prime and for every number $a$ and $b$ that $P(p, a, b)$ is true. Thinking again in $P(p, a, b) = (\forall a, b)(P_3(p, a, b) \rightarrow P_1(p, b) \vee P_2(p, a))$, for every number $a,b$ such that $P(p, a, b)$ is false, because we could always find some number $a = e * d$ and $b = f * g$, which $d,g$ are also prime, then $P_3(p, a, b)$ is true but $P_1(p, b), P_2(p, a)$ are false. It means that for every composite number $p$, $P(p, a, b)$ is false. Then if $P(p, a, b)$ is true, $p$ must be prime. 

11. Let $a, b$ and $c$ be nonzero integers such that $a, b$ are coprime and $a, c$ are coprime. Prove that $a$ and $bc$ are coprime.  
**Prove:** Suppose $a$ and $bc$ are not coprime, then let $g = gcd(a, bc)$. $1 = sa + bt \rightarrow c = sac + bct \rightarrow c$ is a linear combination of $a,bc \rightarrow g$ divides $c \rightarrow a$ and $c$ are not coprime which is contradicition.  

12. Let $a$ be an integer and $p$ and $q$ be distinct primes such that $p$ divides $a$ and $q$ divides $a$. Prove that $pq$ divides $a$.  
**Prove:** Accordint to the Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic, $a$ could be expressed uniquely as a product of primes, then $a$ must contain $p$ and $q$. Then $pq$ divides $a$.  

17. Let $a, b$ and $c$ be natural numbers, $gcd(a, b) = d$, and $lcm(a, b) = m$. Prove that  
(a) $a$ divides $b$ iff $m = b$.  
**Prove:** If $a$ divides $b \rightarrow b = ka \rightarrow gcd(a, b) = a$. Because $a$ divides $a$ and $a$ divides $b$, thus $a$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b \rightarrow a \ge lcm(a,b)$, accordint to the definition of $lcm$, then $a$ divides $lcm(a, b) \rightarrow a \le lcm(a,b) \rightarrow a = lcm(a, b) = m \rightarrow m = a = d$.  
If $m = b \rightarrow gcd(a, b) = lcm(a ,b) \rightarrow a$ divides $m$ and $m$ divides $a \rightarrow m = a \rightarrow a$ divides $b$.  
(b) $m \le ab$  
**Prove:** if $m > ab$, contradiction with definition of $lcm$ in the reason of that $ab$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b$ that should be less or equal than $lcm(a, b)$.  
(c) if $d = 1$, then $m = ab$.  
**Prove:** if $d = 1 \rightarrow sa + tb = 1 \rightarrow sma + tmb = m$, for $m = ka, m = fb \rightarrow sma + tmb = m \rightarrow sfab + tkab = ab(sf + tk) = m \rightarrow ab$ divdes $m \rightarrow ab \le m$. And $ab$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b \rightarrow ab \ge m \rightarrow ab = m$.  
(d) if $c$ divides $a$ and $c$ divides $b$, then $lcm(a/c, b/c) = m/c$.  
**Prove:** First, obviously $m/c$ is a common multiple of $a/c$ and $b/c$. Second, to show every common multiple number $p \ge m/c$. Let $f_a * (a/c) = p$ and $f_b * (b/c) = p \rightarrow f_b * b = f_a * a = p*c \rightarrow pc$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b \rightarrow pc \ge m \rightarrow p \ge m/c$.     
(f) $gcd(a, b) * lcm(a, b) = ab$.  
**Prove:** Since $gcd(a/d, b/d) = 1$, use (c) we have $lcm(a/d, b/d) = (a/d) * (b/d) = ab/d^2$. And because $d$ is common factor of $a$ and $b$, use (d) have $lcm(a/d, b/d) = m/d$. Now $ab/d^2 = lcm(a/d, b/d) = m/d \rightarrow ab/d^2 = m/d \rightarrow md = ab$. Note $m = lcm(a, b)$ and $d = gcd(a, b)$.  
18. Let $a$ and $b$ integers, and let $m = lcm(a, b)$. Use the Division Algorithm to prove that if $c$ is a common multiple of $a$ and $b$, then $m$ divides $c$.  
**Prove:** If $m$ not divides $c$, use the Division Algorithm we have $c = q*m + r, 0 \le r < m \rightarrow r = c -qm$, and let $ka = c, fb = c, ga = m, hb = m \rightarrow r = a(k - qg), r = b(f - qh) \rightarrow r$ is a common multiple number $\rightarrow r \ge m$ which contradiction with $r < |m|$.  