# Sets and Induction  
## 2.1 Basic Concepts of Set Theory  
### Conetent  
* Definition of Power Set  
Let $A$ be a set. The power set of $A$ is the set whose element are the subset of $A$ and is denoted $P(A)$. Thus $P(A) = [B: B \subseteq A]$.  

### Theorem 2.1.1  
(a) For every set $A$, $\varnothing \subseteq A$.  
(b) For every set $A$, $A \subseteq A$.  
(c) For all sets $A, B$ and $C$, if $A \subseteq B$ and $B \subseteq C$, then $A \subseteq C$.  

### Theorem 2.1.2  
* If $A$ and $B$ are sets with no elements, then $A$ = $B$. Then $A = B$.  
**Prove:** If $x \in A$, then $x \in B$, this sentence is empty true. Also is inverse proposition of the sentence empty true.  

### Theorem 2.1.3  
* For any sets $A$ and $B$, if $A \subseteq B$ and $A \ne \empty$, then $B \ne \empty$.  
**Prove:** Skip.
### Theorem 2.1.4  
* If $A$ is a set with n elements, then $P(A)$ is a set with $2^n$ elements.  
**Prove:** Skip.  
### Theorem 2.1.5  
* Let $A$ and $B$ be sets. Then $A \subseteq B$ if and only if $P(A) \subseteq P(B)$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $A \subseteq B$, $\forall X \in P(A) \rightarrow X \subseteq A \subseteq B \rightarrow X \subseteq P(B)$. Suppose $P(A) \subseteq P(B)$, and $A \in P(A) \rightarrow A \in P(B) \rightarrow A \subseteq B$.  
### Exercises  
7. Prove that if $x \in B$ and $A \subseteq B$, then $x \in A$.  
**Prove:** If $x \in A$, then $x \in B$, contradiction with $x \in B$.  
9. Prove that if $A \subseteq B, B \subseteq C$, and $C \subseteq A$, then $A = B = C$.  
**Prove:** use Theorem 2.1.1 we could have the conclusion.  
18. Let $A$ and $B$ be sets. Prove that  
(a) $A = B$ iff $P(A) = P(B)$.   
**Prove:** use Theorem 2.1.5 twice.  
(b) if $A$ is a proper subset of $B$, then $P(A)$ is a proper subset of $P(B)$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $A$ is a proper subset of $B$, have $x \in B, x \notin A \rightarrow \{x\} \in P(B), \{x\} \notin P(A)$, then $P(A)$ is a proper subset of $P(B)$.  

## 2.2 Set Operations  
### Conetent  
* Definition of Disjoint  
Sets A and B are disjoint iff $A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$.  
* Definition of Complement  
Let $U$ be the universe and $A \subseteq U$. The complement of $A$ is the set $A^c = U - A$.  
* Definition of Product Sets  
Let $A$ and $B$ be sets. The product of $A$ and $B$ is $A * B = [(a, b): a \in A ~ \wedge ~ b \in B]$
### Theorem 2.2.1  
* (a) $A \subseteq A ~ \cup ~ B$, (b) $A ~ \cap ~ B \subseteq A$, (c) $A ~\bigcap~ \varnothing = \varnothing$, (d) $A ~\bigcup~ \varnothing = A$, (e) $A ~\bigcap~ A = A$, (f) $A ~\bigcap~ A = A$, (g) $A - \varnothing = A$, (i) $A ~\bigcup~ B = B ~\bigcup~ A$, (j) $A ~\bigcap~ B = B ~\bigcap~ A$, (k) $A ~\bigcup~ (B ~\bigcup~ C) = (A ~\bigcup~ B) ~\bigcup~ C$, (l) $A ~\bigcap~ (B ~\bigcap~ C) = (A ~\bigcap~ B) ~\bigcap~ C$, (m) $A ~\bigcap~ (B ~\bigcup~ C) = (A ~\bigcap~ B)~\bigcup~(A ~\bigcap~ C)$, (n) $A ~\bigcup~ (B ~\bigcap~ C) = (A ~\bigcup~ B)~\bigcap~(A ~\bigcup~ C)$.  
* (o) $A \subseteq B$ iff $A ~ \cup ~ B = B$  
**Prove:** Suppose $A \subseteq B$, think $x \in A ~ \cup ~ B, x \in A$ or $x \in B$. If $x \in A \rightarrow x \in B$, so $x \in A ~ \cup ~ B \rightarrow x \in B$ and use (a), have $x \in A ~ \cup ~ B = B$. Suppose $A ~ \cup ~ B = B$, use (a) have $A \subseteq A ~ \cup ~ B = B \rightarrow A \subseteq B$.  
* (p) $A \subseteq B$ iff $A ~ \cap ~ B = A$
**Prove:** Suppose $A \subseteq B$, $\forall x \in A \rightarrow x \in B \rightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x\in B \rightarrow x \in A ~ \cap ~ B$, use (b) have $A ~ \cap ~ B = A$. Suppose $A ~ \cap ~ B = A \rightarrow A \subseteq A ~ \cap ~ B \rightarrow (\forall x \in A \rightarrow x \in A \wedge x \in B) \rightarrow x \in B \rightarrow A \subseteq B$.  
* (q) If $A \subseteq B$, then $A ~ \cup ~ C \subseteq B ~ \cup ~ C$.  
* (r) If $A \subseteq B$, then $A ~ \cap ~ C \subseteq B ~ \cap ~ C$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in A ~ \cap ~ C \rightarrow x \in A ~\wedge~ x \in C \rightarrow x \in A \rightarrow x \in B \rightarrow x \in B \wedge x \in C$.  

### Theorem 2.2.2  
Let $U$ be the universe, and let $A$ and $B$ be subsets of $U$. Then  
* (a) $(A^c)^c = A$. (b) $A ~ \cup ~ A^c = U$. (c) $A ~ \cap ~ A^c = \varnothing$, (b) $A ~\bigcup~ A^c = U$, (c) $A ~\bigcap~ A^c = \varnothing$.  
* (d) $A - B = A ~ \cap ~ B^c$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in \{A - B\} \leftrightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ (x \notin B \leftrightarrow x \in U ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B) \leftrightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \in B^c$.  
* (e) $A \subseteq B$ iff $B^c \subseteq A^c$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $A \subseteq B$, $\forall x \in B^c \rightarrow x \in U ~ \wedge ~ (x \notin B \rightarrow x \notin A ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B - A) \rightarrow x \in U ~ \wedge ~ x \notin A$. Suppose $B^c \subseteq A^c$, $\forall x \in A \rightarrow x \in U ~\wedge ~(x \notin A^c \rightarrow x \notin B^c ~ \wedge ~ x \notin A^c - B^c) \rightarrow x \in U ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B^c \rightarrow x \in B$.  
* (f) $A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$ iff $A \subseteq B^c$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$, $\forall x \in A \rightarrow x \notin B \rightarrow x \in B^c$.(If $x \in B $, then contradiction with $A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$). Suppose $A \subseteq B^c$, $\forall x \in A \rightarrow x \in B^c \rightarrow x \notin B \rightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B \rightarrow A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$.  
* (g) $(A ~ \bigcup ~ B)^c = A^c ~ \bigcap ~ B^c$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in (A ~ \cup ~ B)^c \leftrightarrow x \notin [A ~ \cup ~ B] \leftrightarrow x \notin [y: y \in A ~ \vee ~ y \in B] \leftrightarrow x \notin A ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B \leftrightarrow x \in A^c ~ \wedge ~ x \in B^c \leftrightarrow x \in A^c ~ \cap ~ B^c$.  
* (h) $(A ~ \bigcap ~ B)^c = A^c ~ \bigcup ~ B^c$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in (A ~ \cap ~ B)^c \leftrightarrow x \notin [y: y \in A ~ \wedge ~ y \in B] \leftrightarrow x \in A^c ~ \vee ~ x \in B^c \leftrightarrow x \in A^c ~ \cup ~ B^c$.  

### Theorem 2.2.3  
If $A, B, C$ and $D$ are sets, then  
* (a) $A * (B ~ \cup ~C) = (A * B)~\cup~(A * C).$ (b) $A * (B ~ \cap ~C) = (A * B)~\cap~(A * C)$. (c) $A * \varnothing = \varnothing$, (c) $A * \varnothing = \varnothing$.  
* (d) $(A * B) ~ \cap ~ (C * D) = (A ~ \cap ~ C) * (B ~ \cap ~ D).$  
**Prove:** $\forall (a, b) \in (A * B) ~ \cap ~ (C * D) \leftrightarrow (a, b) \in A * B ~ \wedge ~ (a, b) \in C * D \leftrightarrow a \in A ~ \wedge ~ a \in C ~ \wedge ~ b \in B ~ \wedge ~ b \in D \leftrightarrow (A ~ \cap ~ C) * (B ~ \cap ~ D).$  
* (e) $(A * B) ~ \cup ~ (C * D) \subseteq (A ~ \cup ~ C) * (B ~ \cup ~ D)$.  
**Prove:** Miss.  
* (f) $(A * B) ~ \cap ~ (B * A) = (A ~ \cap ~B) * (A ~ \cap ~ B)$
**Prove:** $\forall (a, b) \in (A * B) ~ \cap ~ (B * A) \leftrightarrow (a, b) \in A * B ~ \wedge ~ (a, b) \in B * A \leftrightarrow a \in A ~ \wedge ~ b \in B ~ \wedge ~ a \in B ~ \wedge ~ b \in B \leftrightarrow (A ~ \cap ~ B) * (A ~ \cap ~ B).$  

### Exercise  
9. Let A, B and C be sets. Prove that  
(a) $A \subseteq B$ iff $A - B = \varnothing$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in A - B \leftrightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B \leftrightarrow x \in A ~ \cap ~ B^c$. Then use Theorem 2.2.2 (e), have $A ~ \cap ~ B^c = \varnothing$ iff $A \subseteq (B^c)^c = B$.  
(e) $(A - B) - C  = (A - C) - (B - C)$.  
**Prove:** Miss.  
(g) $(A ~ \cup ~ B) ~ \cap ~ C \subseteq A ~ \cup ~ (B ~ \cap ~ C)$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in (A ~ \cup ~ B) ~ \cap ~ C \leftrightarrow x \in (A ~ \cup ~ B) ~ \wedge ~ x \in C \leftrightarrow x \in (A ~ \cap ~ C) ~ \wedge ~ x \in (B ~ \cap ~ C) \rightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \in (B ~ \cap ~ C)$.  
(h) $A - B$ and $B$ are disjoint.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in (A - B) ~ \cap ~ B \rightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \in B ~ \wedge ~ x \notin B \rightarrow x \in A ~ \wedge ~ x \in \varnothing \rightarrow x \in \varnothing$.  

10. Let $A, B, C$ and $D$ be sets. Prove that  
(c) if $C \subseteq A, D \subseteq B$, and $A$ and $B$ are disjoint, then $C$ and $D$ are disjoint. 
**Prove:** Suppose $C$ and $D$ are not disjoint, then $\exist x \in C ~ \cap ~ D \rightarrow x \in A ~ \cap ~ B$ by (a), which contradiction.  
(d) if $C \subseteq A$ and $D \subseteq B$, then $D - A \subseteq B - C$.  
**Prove:** Skip.  
(e) if $A ~ \cup ~ B \subseteq C ~ \cup ~ D, A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing$ and $ C \subseteq A$, then $B \subseteq D$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $B ~ \cap ~ D = \varnothing$. $C \subseteq A ~ \wedge ~ A ~ \cap ~ B = \varnothing \rightarrow B ~ \cap ~ C = \varnothing \rightarrow \forall x \in B, x \notin C ~ \cup ~ D \rightarrow \exist x \in A ~ \cup ~ B$ such that $x \notin C ~ \cup ~ D$, which contradiction.  

12. Let A and B be sets.  
(a) Prove that $P(A ~ \cap ~ B) = P(A) ~ \cap ~ P(B)$.  
**Prove:** $\forall X \in P(A ~ \cap ~ B) \leftrightarrow X \subseteq A ~ \cap ~ B$. Use Exercise 9 (c), $X \subseteq A ~ \cap ~ B \leftrightarrow X \subseteq A ~  \wedge ~ X \subseteq B \leftrightarrow X \subseteq P(A) ~ \cap ~ P(B)$.  
(b) Prove that $P(A) ~ \cup ~ P(B) \subseteq P(A ~ \cup ~ B)$  
**Prove:** Skip.  For (d), I guess that $A \subseteq B$ or $B \subseteq A$ is the condition.  
17. Let $a, b, c$ and $d$ be real numbers.  
(a) Prove that if $0 < a < b$, then $(a, b) \nsubseteq (2a, 2b)$.  
**Prove:**  If $(a, b) \subseteq (2a, 2b)$, let $0< d < min(a, b - a)$, then $a + d \in (a, b)$, but $a + d < 2a \rightarrow a + d \notin (2a, 2b)$. Contradiction.  
(b) Prove that if $a, b, c$ and $d$ are in the closed [$0, 1$], $a < c < d$ and $b + d > 1 + a + c$, then closed intervals [$a, b$] and [$c, d$] are not disjoint.  
**Prove:**  Suppose [$a, b$] and [$c, d$] are disjoint. Then $a < b < c < d$, if not, we could find that [$a, b$] and [$c, d$] are not disjoint. $b + d > 1 + a + c \leftrightarrow b - c + d - a > 1$. Obviously, $b - c < 0$ and $d - a < 1$, then $b - c + d - a < 1$. Contradiction.  

## 2.3 Indexed Families of Sets  
### Content  
$P$ is a set of sets.
* Definition of Union  
$x \in \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$ iff $(\exist A \in P)(x \in A)$.  
* Definition of Intersection  
$x \in \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A$ iff $(\forall A \in P)(x \in A)$.  
* Definition of Indexed Family of Sets  
Let $\bigtriangleup$ be nonempty set such that for each $\alpha \in \bigtriangleup$ there is a corresponding set $A_\alpha$. The family $\{A_\alpha: \alpha \in \bigtriangleup \}$ is an indexed family of sets. The set $\bigtriangleup$ is called the indexing set, and each $\alpha \in \bigtriangleup$ is an index.  
* Definition of Pairwise Disjoint  
The indexed family $P = \{A_\alpha: \alpha \in \bigtriangleup\}$ of sets is pairwise disjoint if for all $\alpha$ and $\beta$ in $\bigtriangleup$, either $A_\alpha = A_\beta$ or $A_\alpha ~ \bigcap ~ B_\beta = \varnothing$.  
### Theorem 2.3.1  
(a) For every set $B$ in the family $P$, $\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq B$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \leftrightarrow (\forall A \in P)(x \in A)$, since $B \in P$, then $x \in B$.  
(b) For every set $B$ in the family $P$, $B \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in B$ we have $(\exist A \in P)(x \in A)$ is true, then $x \in \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$. Thus $B \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$.  
(c) If the family $P$ is nonempty, then $\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$.  
**Prove:** Skip.  
(d) De Morgan's Laws. $(\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A)^c = \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A^c$.  
**Prove:** Skip.  
(e) De Morgan's Laws. $(\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A)^c = \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A^c$.  
**Prove:** $(\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A)^c = (\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}(A^c)^c)^c = (\bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A^c)^c = \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A^c$.  

### Theorem 2.3.2  
Let $P$ be a noneempty family of sets and $B$ be a set.  
(a) If $B \subseteq A$ for all $A \in P$, then $B \subseteq \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in B \rightarrow x \in A$, satisfy $(\forall A \in P)(x \in A)$, then $x \in \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \rightarrow B \subseteq \bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A$.  
(b) If $A \subseteq B$ for all $A \in P$, then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq B$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x \in \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A \rightarrow (\exist A \in P)(x \in A)$, and $\forall A \in P, A \subseteq B$, thus $x \in B \rightarrow \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq B$.  

### Exeicises  
5. By Theorem 2.3.1, $\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$ is true for every nonempty family of sets. Let the universe be R, and let $P$ be the empty family of subset of R. Show that $\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A$ is false in this case by proving that (a) $\bigcap\limits_{A \in P}A = R$ and (b) $\bigcup\limits_{A \in P}A = \varnothing$.  
(a) **Prove:** Miss.  

## 2.4 Mathematical Induction  
### Content  
* Principle of Mathematical Induction(PMI)  
Let $S$ be a subset of $N$ with these two properties: (i) $1 \in S$; and (ii) for all $n \in N$, if $n \in S$, then $n + 1 \in S$. Then $S = N$.  
* Generalized Principle of Mathematical Induction  
Let k be a natural number. Let $S$ be a subset of $N$ with these two properties: (i) $k \in S$; and (ii) for all $n \in N$ with $n \ge k$, if $n \in S$, then $n + 1 \in S$. Then $S$ contains all natural numbers greater than or equal to $k$.  
### Theorem 2.4.1 De Moivre's Formula  
Let $\theta$ be a real number. For all $n \in N$, $(\cos\theta + i \sin\theta)^n = \cos n \theta + i \sin n \theta$.  

### Theorem 2.4.5 Archimedean Principle for $N$  
For all natural numbers $a$ and $b$, there exists a natural number $s$ such that $sb > a$.  

### Exercises  
Temp Skip.  

## 2.5 Equivalent Forms of Induction  
### Content  
* Principle of Complete Induction(PCI)  
For all natural numbers $n$, if $\{1, 2, 3, ...., n - 1\} \subseteq S$, then $n \in S$. Then $S = N$.  
* Well-Ordering Principle(WOP)  
Every nonempty subset of $N$ has a smallest element.  
### Lemma 2.5.1 
Every natural number greater than 1 is prime or is a product of primes.  
**Prove:** Skip. But consider that $\{1\} = S$, the condition of $\{1, 2, 3, ...., n - 1\} \subseteq S$ is false, then PCI is empty true for Lemma 2.5.1, thus we could use PCI in here.  

### Theorem 2.5.2 The Division Algorithm  
For all integers $a$ and $b$, with $a \ne 0$, there exist unique integers $q$ and $r$ such that $b = aq + r$ and $0 \le r < |a|$.  
**Prove:** If $a$ divides $b$, then obviously $r = 0$ and $b = ak$ for a unique integer $k$. If $a$ not divides $b$, let $S = \{b - ak: b - ak > 0\}$ for some integers k. The $S$ has a smallest number $r$. Suppose $r \ge |r| \rightarrow r = |a| + d, d > 0$, and $r = b - ak \rightarrow |a| + d = b - ak \rightarrow d = b - a(k + 1)$ or $d = b - a(k - 1)$. If $a > 0$, $d = b - a(k + 1) < b - ak$ which is a contradiction. If $a < 0$, $d = b - a(k - 1)$, also have $d < b - ak$ and a contradiction with WOP.  
If there exists $q^o, r^o$ such that $b = aq^o + r^o$ and $0 \le r^o < |a|$. $aq^o + r^o = aq + r \rightarrow a(q^o - q) = r - r^o \rightarrow a$ divides $r - r^o$, but we have $0 \le r - r^o \le r < |a|$, then $r - r^o$ must be $0$ and $q - q^o$ also be $0$. Thus $r = r^o$ and $q = q^o$.  

### Theorem 2.5.3  
Let $a$ and $b$ be nonzero integers. Then there is a smallest positive linear combination of $a$ and $b$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $T = \{ ka + qb: ka + qb > 0\}$ for some integers $k$ and $q$, and use WOP there must be a smallest number in $T$, then this number is the smallest positive linear combination of $a$ and $b$.  

### Theorem 2.5.4 The Fundamental Therorem of Arithmetic  
Evert natural number greater than 1 is prime or can be expressed uniquely as a product of primes.  
**Prove:** Suppose $T = \{x \in N: x$ is not prime and expressed uniquely as two or more product of primes $\}$. Use WOP, let $r$ be the smallest number in $T$, we have $r = p_1p_2....p_n$ and $r = q_1q_2....q_n$, which $p^n,q^n$ are different primes. Now we have $p_1p_2...p_n = q_1q_2....q_n$, use Euclid's Lemma for some $p_j$ divides $q_m$, and $q_m$ divides $p_k$, then $p_1p_2...p_{j - 1}...p_n/q_m = q_1q_2...q_{m - 1}...q_n/p_k = d$, obviously $d < r$ and $d \in T$, but this is a contradiction.  

### Theorem 2.5.5  
The Principle of Mathematical Induction implies the Well-Ordering Principle  
**Prove:** Miss.  

### Theorem 2.5.6 
The Well-Ordering Principle implies the Princilpe of Complete Induction  
**Prove:** Suppose $S \subseteq N$ with such property: if $\{1, 2, 3, ...., m - 1\} \in S$, then $m \in S$ for all natural number $m$. Let $T = N - S$ and $r$ is the smallest number in $T$, then $r - 1 \in S$, but according to the property of S, $r \in S$. Thus $T$ is empty set and $S = N$.  

### Theorem 2.5.7  
The Principle of Complete Induction implies the Principle of Mathematical Induction.  
**Prove:** Miss.  

### Exercises  
1. Use the PCI to prove that  
(a) every natural number greater than or equal to 11 can be written in the forms $2s + 5t$, for some natural numbers $s$ and $t$.  
**Prove:** Let $m$ be natural number, and suppose $m = 11$, then $m = 2 * 3 + 5 * 1$, thus $m = 11 \in S$. Suppose $\{11, 12, ...., m - 1 \} \in S$, for every natural number $m$. If $m - 1$ is odd, then $m$ is even, $m = 2s \rightarrow m = 2s + 5* 0$. If $m - 1 is even$, then $m$ is odd $\rightarrow t = 2d + 1 \rightarrow m = 2s + 10d + 5 + 1 \rightarrow m = 2s + 6 + 10d \rightarrow m = 2 * (s+3) + 5 *(2d)$. Closed.  
(b) every natural number greater than 22 can be written in the form $3s + 4t$, where $s$ and $t$ are integers, $s \ge 3$ and $t \ge 2$.  
**Prove:** Miss.   

4. Use the WOP to prove that the following:  
(a) If n is a natural number, then n + 1 = 1 + n.  
**Prove:** Suppose $T = \{x \in N: x + 1 \ne 1 + x\}$. Let $n$ is the smallest number in $T$, then $1 + n \ne = n + 1 \rightarrow 1 + n - 1 \ne n + 1 - 1 \rightarrow 1 + n - 1 \ne n - 1 + 1$, and $n - 1 \in T$ which $n - 1 < n$, a contradiction.  
(b) If $a > 0$, then for every natural number $n, a^n > 0$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $a > 0$ and $T = \{x \in N : a^n \le 0\}$. Let $n$ is the smallest number in $T$, $a^n < 0 \rightarrow a^n - a < 0 \rightarrow a^{n - 1} < 0 \rightarrow n - 1 \in T$, contradiction.  
(c) For all positive integers $a$ and $b$, $b \ne a + b$.  
**Prove:** Suppose set T is $\exist a \in N$ such that $b = a + b$ for all natural number $b$. Let $r$ is the smallest number in $T$, it's easy to see $r - 1 + n = r + n - 1 = r - 1$, $r- 1 < r$, which $n \in N$, and $r - 1 \in T$, contradiction.  
(d) $\sqrt{2}$ is irrational.  
**Prove:** $\sqrt{2}$ is not irrational, we have $2n^2 = m^2$ for some integers $n \ne 0,m$. Let $T$ is the set of all integers satisfy this condition, and $r$ is the smallest number in $T$. Obviously, we have $2r^2 = m^2$ by $n^2 < m^2$. By The Fundamental Number Theory, we have $2r^2 = m^2 \rightarrow m = 2d \rightarrow 2n^2 = 4d^2 \rightarrow n^2 = 2d^2$, which $d$ satisfy the condition of $T$, contradiction.  

13. Prove that the converse of Theorems 2.5.5, 2.5.6, and 2.5.7. That is, prove that  
(a) the WOP implies the PMI.  
**Prove:** Let $S$ is the set which satisfy the condition of PMI, and $T = N - S$. Suppose $r$ is the smallest number in $T$, and $r - 1$ must be in $S$, but according to the condition of PMI, $r$ also in $S$, contradiction. Thus $T$ is empty set, and $S = N$.  
(b) the PCI implies the WOP.  
**Prove:** Let $T$ is the set which has no smallest number and $S = N - T$. Obviously $1 \in S$, and for every number $m$, if $\{1, 2, 3, ..., m - 1\} \in S$, and $m$ also in $S$. If $m \in T$, and $\{1, 2, 3, ..., m - 1\} \in S$, $m$ will be the smallest number in $T$. Then $S = N$, and $T = \varnothing$.  
(c) the PMI implies the PCI.  
**Prove:** Let $S$ is the set which satisfy the condition of PCI, then $\{1, 2, 3, ..., m - 1\} \in S$ for every number $m$. Now $1 \in S$ and if $n = m - 1, n \in S$, then $n + 1 = m$ also in $S$, thus $S$ satisfy PMI, and $S = N$.  

## 2.6 Principles of Counting  
### Content  
* Definition of Symbol  
We write $\bar{A} = n$ to indicate the set $A$ has $n$ elements. $\bar{\varnothing} = 0$.  
* Definition of Permutation  
A permutation of a set with $n$ elements is an arrangement of the elements of the set in a specific order.  
* Definition of $n$-factorial  
$n$-factorial is the product $n(n-1)\dots 3*2*1$ for all $n \in N$, and that $0! = 1$.  
* Definition of Binomial Coefficient.  
The number of combinations of $n$ elements taken $r$ at a time is called the binomial coefficient $\begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix}$, read "n choose r" or "n binomial r".  


### Theorem 2.6.1 The Sum Rule(for two sets)  
Let $A$ and $B$ be finites sets with $m$ and $n$ elements, respectively. If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint, then $\overline{A ~ \cup ~ B} = m + n$.  

### Theorem 2.6.2 The Sum Rule  
For all $n \in N$ and for every family $P = \{A_i: i = 1, 2, 3, ...., n \}$ of $n$ distinct pair-wise disjoint sets, if $\bar{A_i} = a_i$, for $1 \le i \le n$, then $\overline{\bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^nA_i} = \sum\limits_{i = 1}^n a_i$.  

### Theorem 2.6.3  
For finite sets $A$ and $B$, $\overline{A ~ \cup ~ B} = \bar{A} + \bar{B} - \overline{A ~ \cap ~ B}$.  

### Theorem 2.6.4 The Product Rule(for two sets)  
If $A$ and $B$ are finite sets with $m$ and $n$ elements, respectively, then $\overline{A * B} = mn$. 

### Theorem 2.6.5 The Product Rule  
For all $n \in N$ and for every family $P = \{A_i: i = 1, 2, 3, ...., n \}$ of $n$ sets, if $\bar{A_i} = a_i$, for $1 \le i \le n$, then $\overline{A_1 * A_2 * \dots * A_n} = \prod\limits_{i = 1}^n a_i$.  

### Theorem 2.6.6  
The number of permutations of a set of $n$ elements is $n!$.  

### Theorem 2.6.7 The Permutation Rule  
If $n$ is a natural number and $r$ is an integer such that $0 \le r \le n$, then the number of permutation of any $r$ distinct objects from a set of $n$ objects is $\frac{n!}{(n - r)!}$.  

### Theorem 2.6.8 The Combination Rule  
Let $n$ be a positive integer and $r$ be an integer such that $0 \le r \le n$. Then $\begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix} = \frac{n!}{r!(n - r)!}$.  

### Theorem 2.6.9 The Chairperson Rule  
Let $n$ be a positive integer and $r$ be an integer such that $0 \le r \le n$. Then $r\begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix} = n\begin{pmatrix} n - 1 \\ r - 1 \end{pmatrix}$.  

### Theorem 2.6.10  
Let $n$ be a positive integer and $r$ be an integer such that $0 \le r \le n$.  
(a) The Biniomial Therorem For $a, b \in R, (a + b)^n = \sum\limits_{r = 0}^n \begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix}a^rb^{n - r}$.  
(b) $\begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} n  \\ n - r \end{pmatrix}$.  
(c) $\begin{pmatrix} n \\ r \end{pmatrix} = \begin{pmatrix} n - 1 \\ r \end{pmatrix} + \begin{pmatrix} n - 1 \\ r - 1 \end{pmatrix}$ for $r \ge 1$.  

### Exercises  
Temp Skip.  