# Relations and Partitions   
## 3.1 Relations  
### Conetent  
* Definition of Relation  
Let $A$ and $B$ be sets. $R$ is a relation from $A$ to $B$ if $R$ is a subset of $A * B$. A relation from $A$ to $A$ is called a relation on $A$. If $(a, b) \in R$, we say a is R-related (or simply related) to $b$ and write $a R b$.  
* Defintion of Identity Relation  
For any set $A$, the identity relation on $A$ is the set $I_A = \{(a, a): a \in A\}$.  
* Definition of Domain and Range.  
Dom($R$) $= \{x \in A: y \in B,~ st. ~ x R y \}$.  
Rng($R$) $= \{y \in B: x \in A,~ st. ~ x R y \}$. 
* Definition of Inverse  
If $R$ is a relation from $A$ to $B$, then the inverse of $R$ is the relation $R^{-1} = \{(y, x):(x, y) \in R \}$.  
* Defintion of Composite Relation  
Let $R$ be a relation from $A$ to $B$m and let $S$ be a relation from $B$ to $C$. The composite of $R$ and $S$ is $S \circ R = \{(a,c): \exist b \in B ~ st.~ (a, b) \in R ~\wedge~ (b, c) \in S \}$

### Theorem 3.1.1  
Let $R$ be relation from $A$ to $B$.  
(a) Dom($R^{-1}$) = Rng($R$)  
**Prove:** Dom($R^{-1}$) $= \{y \in B: x \in A,~ st. ~ y R^{-1} x \}$ iff $\exist (x \in A)[(\exist y \in B) ~ yR^{-1}x]$ iff $\exist (x \in A)[(\exist y \in B) ~ yRx]$ iff $\exist (y \in B)[(\exist x \in A) ~ yRx]$.
(b) Dom($R$) = Rng($R^{-1}$)  
**Prove:** Skip.  

### Theorem 3.1.2  
Suppose that $A, B, C$ and $D$ are sets. Let $R$ be a relation from $A$ to $B$, S be a relation from $B$ to $C$, and $T$ be a relation from $C$ to $D$.  
(a) $(R^{-1})^{-1} = R$.  
**Prove:** $(R^{-1})^{-1} = \{(x, y):(y, x) \in R^{-1} \} = \{(x, y):(y, x) \in \{ (y, x):(x, y) \in R\} \}$. Thus $(x, y) \in (R^{-1})^{-1}$ iff $(y, x) \in R^{-1}$ iff $(x, y) \in R$.  
(b) $T \circ (S \circ R) = (T \circ S) \circ R$, so composition is associative.  
(c) $I_B \circ R = R$ and $R \circ I_A = R$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $(x, y) \in R \circ I_A$, then $\exist z \in A$ such that $(z, y) \in I_A$ and $(x, y) \in R$, since $(z, y) \in I_A$, $z = y$, this $(x, y) \in R$.  Suppose $(p, q) \in R$, because $q \in A$, then $(q, q) \in I_A$. Thus $(p, q) \in R \circ I_A$.  
(d) $(S \circ R)^{-1} = R^{-1} \circ S^{-1}$.  
**Prove:** $(c, a) \in (S \circ R)^{-1}$ iff $\exist b \in B$ such that $(a, b) \in R$ and $(b, c) \in S$ iff $\exist b \in B$ such that $(b, a) \in R^{-1}$ and $(c, b) \in S^{-1}$ iff $\exist b \in B$ such that $(c, b) \in S^{-1}$ and $(b, a) \in R^{-1}$ iff $(c, a) \in R^{-1} \circ S^{-1}$.  

## 3.2 Equivalence Relations  
### Conetent  
* Definition of Equivalence Relation  
Let $A$ be a set and $R$ be a relation on $A$. $R$ is reflexive on $A$ if for all $x \in A, x R x$. $R$ is symmetric if for all $x, y \in A$, if $x R y$, then $y R x$. $R$ is transitive if for all $x, y, z \in A$, if $x R y$ and $y R z$, then $x R z$.  
And a relation $R$ on a set $A$ is an equivalence relation on $A$ if $R$ is relfexive on $A$, symmetric and transitive.  
* Definition of Equivalence Class Modulo  
Let $R$ be an equivalence relation on a set $A$. For $x \in A$, the equivalence class of x modulo R (or simply x mod R) is the set $\bar{x} = \{ y \in A : x R y\}$. Each element of $\bar{x}$ is called a representative of this class. The set $A/r = \{\bar{x}: x \in A \}$ of all equivalence classes is called $A$ modulo $R$.  
* Definition of Congruent Modulo  
Let $m$ be a fixed positive integer. For $x, y \in Z$, we say $x$ is congruent to $y$ modulo $m$ and write $x = y$(mod $m$) if $m$ divides $(x - y)$. The number $m$ is called the modulus of the congruence.  
* Definition of Congruence Equivalence Classes  
The set of equivalence classes for the relation congruence modulo $m$ is denoted $Z_m$.  

### Theorem 3.2.1  
Let $A$ be a set. For the power set $P(A)$, the relation "is a subset of" is reflexive on $P(A)$ and transitive but not symmetric.  
**Prove:** Suppose $B,C,D \in P(A)$, then we have $B \subseteq B$, $R$ is relfexive. If $B \subseteq C, C \subseteq D$, must have $B \subseteq D$, $R$ is transitive. If $B \subseteq C$, have not $C \subseteq B$, not symmetric.  

### Theorem 3.2.2  
Let $R$ be an equivalence relation on a nonempty set $A$. For all $x$ and $y$ in $A$,  
(a) $x \in \bar{x}$ and $\bar{x} \subseteq A$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $x \in A$, then $x R x$, thus $x \in \bar{x}$. $a \in \bar{x} \rightarrow a \in \{y \in A: x R y\} \rightarrow a \in A \rightarrow \bar{x} \subseteq A$.  
(b) $x R y$ iff $\bar{x} = \bar{y}$.  
**Prove:** If $x R y$, and $\forall z in \bar{x}$, have $x R z$ and $z R x$. Use $y R x$ and transitive, have $y R z$, thus $z \in \bar{y}$. The rest is skip.  
(c) $(x, y) \notin R$ iff $\bar{x}~\cup ~ \bar{y} = \varnothing$.  
**Prove:** If $\bar{x}~ \cup ~ \bar{y}$, suppose $x R y$, thus $\bar{x} = \bar{y}$, contradiction. If $(x, y) \notin R$, suppose $\bar{x}~ \cup ~ \bar{y} \ne \varnothing \rightarrow \exist z \in \bar{x}~ \cup ~ \bar{y} \rightarrow (x, z) \wedge (y, z) \in R \rightarrow (x, z) \wedge (z, y) \in R \rightarrow (x, y) \in R$, contradiction.  

### Theorem 3.2.3  
For every fixed positive integer $m$, congruence modulo $m$ is an equivalence relation on $Z$.  
**Prove:** Skip.  

### Theorem 3.2.4  
Let $m$ be a fixed positive integer. Then  
(a) for integers $x$ and $y$, $x = y$(mod $m$) iff the remainder when $x$ is divided by $m$ equals the remainder when $y$ is divided by $m$.  
**Prove:** Use Division Algorithm, we have $x = q_x*m + r_m$ and $y = q_y*m + r_y$. And $x - y = zm \rightarrow q_x*m + r_m - q_x*m - r_y = zm \rightarrow (q_x - q_y)m + (r_x - r_y) = zm$. Because $m$ divides $(q_x - q_y)m$, then $m$ also divides $(r_x - r_y)$. And $0 \le (r_x - r_y) < m$, thus $r_x - r_y = 0 \rightarrow r_x = r_y$.  
(b) $Z_m$ consists of $m$ distinct equivalence classes:$Z_m = \{\bar{1}, \bar{2}, ...., \overline{m - 1} \}$.  
**Prove:** Missed.  

### Exercises  
4. The properties of reflexivity, symmetry, and transitivity are related to the identity relation and the operation of inversion and compositiion. Prove that  
(a) $R$ is a reflexive relation on $A$ iff $I_A \subseteq R$.  
**Prove:** If $R$ is reflexive, and suppose $(x, x) \in I_A$, because $x \in A$ then have $(x, x) \in R$, thus $I_A \subseteq R$. If $I_A \subseteq R$, and suppose $x \in A$, we have $(x, x) \in A \rightarrow (x, x) \in R \rightarrow$ $R$ is reflexive.  
(b) $R$ is symmetric iff $R = R^{-1}$.  
**Prove:** If $R$ is symmetric, suppose $(x, y) \in R \rightarrow (y, x) \in R \rightarrow (x, y) \in R^{-1}$, thus $R \subseteq R^{-1}$. And suppose $(y, x) \in R^{-1}$, we also have $R^{-1} \subseteq R$. Then $R = R^{-1}$. If $R = R^{-1}$, suppose $(x, y) \in R \rightarrow (y, x) \in R^{-1}$, beacuse $R = R^{-1}$, $(y, x) \in R$. Then $R$ is symmetric.  
(c) $R$ is transitive iff $R \circ R \subseteq R$.  
**Prove:** If $R$ is transitive, suppose $\exist (a, c) \in R \circ R \rightarrow \exist b \in A$ such that $(a, b) ~ \wedge ~ (b, c) \in R$, and because $R$ is transitive, we have $(a, c) \in R$ then $R \circ R \subseteq R$. If $R \circ R \subseteq R$, suppose $(a, b)$ and $(b, c)$ in $R$, then $(a, c) \in R \circ R \rightarrow (a, c) \in R $, thus $R$ is transitive.  

5. Let $R$ be a relation on a set $A$. Prove that 
(a) if $A$ is nonempty, the empty relation $\varnothing$ is not reflexive on $A$.  
**Prove:** Skip.  

11. Let $R$ be an equivalence relation on a set $A$, and let $x$ and $y$ be elements of $A$. Without reference to Theorem 3.2.2, prove that if $\bar{x}$ and $\bar{y}$ have an element in common, then $x R y$ and $\bar{x} = \bar{y}$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $z$ is the common element, then $x R z$ and $y R z$, use symmetric have $z R y$, thus $x R y$ since transitive. The rest is skip.  

## 3.3 Partitions  
### Content  
* Definition of partition  
Let $A$ be a nonempty set. $P$ is a partition of $A$ if $P$ is a set of subsets of $A$ such that (i) if $X \in P$, then $X \ne \varnothing$. (ii) if $X \in P$ and $Y \in P$, then $X = Y$ or $X ~ \bigcup ~ Y = \varnothing$. (iii) $\bigcup\limits_{X \in P}X = A$.   

### Theorem 3.3.1  
If $R$ is an equivalence relation on a nonempty set $A$, then $A/R$ is a partition of $A$.  
**Prove:** $\forall z \in \bigcup\limits_{X \in P}X$, $\exist \bar{x}$ such that $z \in \bar{x} \rightarrow z \in A \rightarrow \bigcup\limits_{X \in P}X \subseteq A$. $\forall z \in A $ we have $z R z \rightarrow z \in \bar{z} \rightarrow z \in \bigcup\limits_{X \in P}X \rightarrow A \subseteq \bigcup\limits_{X \in P}X$.  

### Theorem 3.3.2  
Let $P$ be a partition of the nonempty set $A$. For $x$ and $y \in A$, define $x Q y$ iff there exists $C \in P$ such that $x \in C$ and $y \in C$. Then  
(a) $Q$ is an equivalence relation on $A$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $x \in A$, we have $exists $C \in P$ 

such that $x \in C$ and $x \in C$, then $x Q x$, and $Q$ is reflexivie. If $C \in P$ such that $x \in C$ and $y \in C$, obviously have $y \in C$ and $x \in C$, and symmetric. Suppose $C \in P$ such that $x \in C$ and $y \in C$, and $D \in P$ such that $y \in D$ and $z \in D$, beacuse $P$ is a partition of $A$, then $C = D$. Thus $Q$ is transitive.  
(b) $A/Q = P$.  
**Prove:** $\forall \bar{x} \in A/Q$, and $x \in \bar{x}$ have $\exist B \in P$ such that $x \in B$. $\forall y \in \bar{x}$, beacause $x Q y$, so $y \in B \rightarrow \bar{x} \subseteq B$. $\forall y \in B$, beacause $x \in B$ and $y \in B$, then $x Q y$ and $y \in \bar{x}$, thus $B \subseteq \bar{x}$. Therefore, $\bar{x} = B$. Now $\forall \bar{x} \in A/Q$ have $\bar{x} \in P \rightarrow A/Q \subseteq P$.  
$\forall B \in P$, $\forall x, y \in B$ have $x Q y$, thus $\bar{x} = \bar{y} = B \rightarrow B \in A/Q \rightarrow P \subseteq A/Q$.  

### Exercises
11. Let $R$ be a relation on a set $A$ that is reflexive and symmetric but not transitive. Let $R(x) = \{y \in A: x R y \}$. Dose the set $A = \{R(x): x \in A\}$ always form a partition of $A$? Prove that your anwser is correct.  
**Prove:** Let $A = \{a,b,c,d\}$, $R=\{(a,b),(a,a),(b,a),(b,b),(c,c),(d,d),(b,c),(c,b)\}$, then $R(a)=\{a,b\}$ and $R(b)=\{a,b,c\}$. Obviously, it's not a partition of $A$.  

## 3.4 Modular Arithmetic  
### Content  
* Definition of Sum  
For each natural number $m$, the sum of the class $\bar{x}$ and $\bar{y}$ in $Z_m$ is defined to be the class containing the integer $x + y$. In symbols, we write $\bar{x} + \bar{y}= \overline{x + y}$.  
* Defintion of Product  
Like Definition of Sum, we write $\bar{x} * \bar{y}= \overline{x * y}$.  

### Example  
* Prove that for every integer $k$, $6$ divides $k^3 + 5k$.  
**Prove:** $k^3 - (-5k) = x * 6 \leftrightarrow k^3 = -5k$(mod 6). $\overline{-5 * k}= \bar{-5} * \bar{k} = \bar{1} * \bar{k} = \overline{1 * k}$. Then we should show $k^3 = k$(mod 6). $k^3 - k = k(k - 1)(k + 1)$, use previous conclusion, $6$ divides $k(k - 1)(k + 1)$ for every integer $k$.  

### Theorem 3.4.1  
Let $m$ be a positive integer, $a, b, c$ and $d$ be in tegers. If $a = c$(mod $m$) and $b = d$(mod $m$), then $a + b = c + d$(mod $m$).  
**Prove:** Suppose $a - c = xm$, $c - f = ym$, then $a + b - (c + d) = s - c + b - d = xm - ym = (x - y)m$, then Throrem 3.4.1 is true.   

### Theorem 3.4.2  
Let $m$ be a positive integer, $a, b, c$ and $d$ be in tegers. If $a = c$(mod $m$) and $b = d$(mod $m$), then $a * b = c * d$(mod $m$).  
**Prove:** Let $a - c = xm$ and $b - d = ym$. $a * b - c * d = (c + xm) * (d + ym) - c * d = c * d + cym + dxm +xym^2 - c * d = cym + dxm + xym^2 = m(cy + dx + xym)$, obviously $m$ divides $m(cy + dx + xym)$. Thus, $a * b = c * d$(mod $m$).  

### Theorem 3.4.3  
Let $m$ be a positive composite integer. Then there exist nonzero equivalence classes $\bar{x}$ and $\bar{y}$ in $Z_m$ such that $\bar{x}*\bar{y}=\bar{0}$.  
**Prove:** $\bar{x} * \bar{y} = \overline{x * y}$, let $x$ or $y$ be $0$, have $\overline{x * y} = \bar{0}$.  

### Theorem 3.4.4  
Let $p$ is prime. Whenever $\bar{x} * \bar{y} = \overline{0}$ in $Z_p$, then eiher $\bar{x} = \bar{0}$ or $\bar{y} = \bar{0}$.  
**Prove:** $\bar{x}, \bar{y} \in \{\bar{0},...\overline{p - 1}\}$, and $\overline{x * y} = \bar{0} \rightarrow x * y = 0$(mod p), use Theorem 1.8.3, have $p$ divides $x$ or $p$ divides $y$. Thus, $\bar{x} = \bar{0}$ or $\bar{y} = \bar{0}$.  

### Theorem 3.4.5 Cancellation Law for $Z_p$  
Let $p$ be a prime. If $xy = xz$ in $Z_p$ and $x \ne 0$, then $y = z$.  
**Prove:** $\overline{xy} = \overline{xz}$(mod p), have p divides $x(y - z) \rightarrow \overline{x(y - z)} = \bar{0} \rightarrow y - z = 0$ beacuse $x \ne 0$, thus $y = z$.  

### Exercises  
10. Prove that for every natural number $m$, if $x = y$(mod $m$), then $x^k = y^k$(mod $m$) for all natural numbers $k$.  
**Prove:** Let $k = 0$, have $1 = 1$(mod m) is true. Then suppose $k = n$ and $x^n = y^n$(mod $m$) is true. Show $x^{n+1} = y^{n+1}$(mod $m$) is true. Use Theorem 3.4.2 have $x * x^n = y * y^n$(mod $m$) is true, thus all proof is closed.  

## 3.5 Ordering Relations  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $R$ be a relation on a set $A$. Then $R$ is antisymmetric if for all $x,y \in A$, if $x R y$ and $y R x$, then $x = y$. $R$ is irreflexive on A if x not have a relation on itself for all $x \in A$. $R$ has the comparability property if for all $x,y \in A$, either $x R y$ or $y R x$.  
* Definition 2  
$R$ is a partial oreder for $A$ if $R$ is reflexive, antisymmetric and transitive on $A$. $R$ is a strict partial order for A if $R$ is irreflexive, antisymmetric and transitive. 
A set with a partial oreder is aclled a partially ordered set, or poset.  
* Definition 3  
Let $R$ is a partial order on a set $A$, and let $a,b \in A$ with $a \ne b$. Then $a$ is an immediate predecessor of $b$ if $a R b$ and there does not exist $c \in A$ such that $a \ne c, b \ne c, a R c$ and $c R b$.  
* Definition 4  
Let $R$ be a partial order for a set $A$. Let $B$ be any subset of $A$ and $a \in A$. Then   
$a$ is an upper bound for $B$ if $b R a$ for every $b \in B$. And $a$ is a lower bound for $B$ if $a R b$ for every $b \in B$.  
$a$ is a least upper bound for $B$. if (i) $a$ is an upper bound for $B$ and (ii) $a R x$ for every upper bound $x$ for $B$.  
$a$ is a greast lower bound for $B$. if (i) $a$ is an lower bound for $B$ and (ii) $x R a$ for every lower bound $x$ for $B$.  
* Definition 5  
Let $R$ be a partial order for a set $A$. Let $B \subseteq A$. If the greatest lower bound for $B$ exists and is an element of $B$, it is called the smallest element(or least element) of $B$. If the least upper bound for $B$ is in B, it is called the largest element(or greatest element) of $B$.  
* Definition 6  
A partial ordering $R$ on $A$ is called a linear order(or total order) on $A$ if for any two distinct elements $x,y \in A$, have either $x R y$ or $y R x$.  
* Definition 7  
Let $L$ be a linear ordering on a set $A$. $L$ is a well ordering on $A$ if every nonempty subset $B$ of $A$ contains a smallest element.  

### Theorem 3.5.1  
Let $R$ be a partial order for a set $A$ and $B \subseteq A$ Then if sup($B$) exists, it is unique. Also, if inf($B$) exists, it is unique.  

### Theorem 3.5.2  Well-Ordering Theorem  
Every set can be well ordered.  

### Exercises  
3. Let $R$ be an antisymmetric relation on the nonempty set $A$. Prove that if $R$ is symmetric and Dom($R$) = $A$, then $R = I_A$.  
**Prove:** If $(x, y) \in R$, have $(y,x) \in R$ and $x = y$, thus $(x, x) \in R$ and $x \in A \leftrightarrow (x,x) \in I_A$. Then $R = I_A$.  

4. Let $R$ be the relation on $N$ given by $a R b$ if there exists an integer $K \ge 0$ such that $b = 2^k*a$. Show that $R$ is a partial ordering. Does this relation have the comparability property?  
**Prove:** (i) $a = 2^0*a \rightarrow (a, a) \in R$, (ii) if $a R b$ and $b R a \rightarrow a = 2^k*b$ and $b = 2^j*a \rightarrow a \ge b$ and $b \ge a \rightarrow a = b$, (iii) if $b = 2^ka$ and $c = 2^jb \rightarrow c = 2^j*2^k*a \rightarrow c = 2^{j+k}*a \rightarrow a R c$. Thus $R$ is a partial ordering. And $R$ does not have the comparability property, if $a, b$ are odds and $a \ne b$.  

12. Let $A$ be a set partially ordered by the relation $R$ and $C \subseteq B \subseteq A$. Prove one of the following, and show by example that the other is false.  
(a) Every upper bound for $C$ is an upper bound for $B$.  
**Prove:** See (b) first. If $C \subsetneq B$, have $b \in B$ and $b \notin C$. Suppose $b \in U_c$, thus $b \notin U_b$ since $b \in B$.  
(b) Every upper bound for $B$ is an upper bound for $C$.  
**Prove:** Let $U_b = \{a \in A: (\forall b \in B)b R a\},U_c = \{a \in A: (\forall b \in C)c R a\}$. Suppose $a \in U_b \rightarrow (\forall b \in B)b R a \rightarrow (\forall b \in (C ~\bigcup ~ B - C))b R a \rightarrow (\forall c \in C)c R a$ and $(\forall b \in B - C)b R a \rightarrow (\forall c \in C)c R a \rightarrow U_b \subseteq U_c$.  

17. Which are linear orders on $N$? Prove your answer.  
(a) $T$, where $m T n$ if $m < 2n$.  
**Prove:** Temp skip.  

19. To prove that a given reltaion is a well ordering, we may show that it has the three properties of a partial order and the two additional properties that make it a well ordering. There are other ways to describe a well ordering.  
(a) Prove that a partial order $R$ on a set $A$ is a well ordering iff every nonempty subset of $A$ has a smallest element.  
**Prove:** Temp skip.  