# Functions   
## 4.1 Fucntions as Relations  
### Conetent  
* Definition 1  
A function from $A$ to $B$ is a relation $f$ from $A$ to $B$ such that (i) the domain of $f$ is $A$ and (ii) if $(x, y) \in f$ and $(x, z) \in f$, then $y = z$.  
We write $f: A \rightarrow B$. $B$ is called the co-domain of $f$.  
When $(x, y) \in f$, write $y = f(x)$. Say $y$ is the image of $f$ at $x$(or value of $f$ at $x$) and x is a pre-image of $y$.  
The range of $f$ is $Rng(f) = \{b \in B:(\exist a \in A)[(a,b) \in f]\}$.  
* Definition 2  
Identity funtion $I_A:A \rightarrow A$ given by $I_A(x) = x$.  
Inclusion function $i:A \rightarrow B$ which $A \subseteq B$ given by $i(x) = x$.  
Characteristic function of A is $X_A: U \rightarrow \{0, 1\}$ which $A \subseteq U$ given by $\begin{matrix}\mathcal{X}_A(x)=\begin{cases}1,&\text{if} ~ x \in A \\0,&\text{if} ~ x \in U - A \end{cases}\end{matrix}$
Greast interger function is a function with domain $R$ and range $Z$. It assigns to each real number $x$ the integer part if $x$, by which we mean the largest integer $n$ such that $n \le x$. Usually denoted as "int". For instance, int($5.9$) = $5$, or $\llcorner 5.9 \lrcorner = 5$
* Definition 3  
A function $x$ with domain $N$ is called an infinite sequence, or simply a sequence. The image of $n$ usually written as $x_n$ instead of $x(n)$ and is called $n$th term of the sequence.  


### Example  
* Prove that $g = \{(x, y): x \in N, x + y = 5 \}$ is a function from $N$ to $Z$.  
**Prove:** According to the definition of function, $x \in N$, then the domain of $g$ is $N$, and the codomain of $g$ is all the number which $y = 5 - x$. And because $x$ is in $N$, so $y$ is in $Z$. Then suppose $(x, y) \in f$ and $(x, z) \in f$, we has $x + y = 5$ and $x + z = 5 \Rightarrow x + y = x + z \Rightarrow y = z$, thus $g$ is a function.   

### Theorem 4.1.1  
Two functions $f$ and $g$ are equal iff (i) Dom$(f)$ = Dom$(g)$ and (ii) for all $x \in$ Dom$(f), f(x) = g(x)$.  
**Prove:** If (i) and (ii) are true, suppose $(x, y) \in f$, and $x \in \text{Dom}(f) \Rightarrow x \in \text{Dom}(g)$, and because $f(x) = g(x) = y$, then $(x, y) \in g$. The reverse proof is skip. The rest proof is skip.  

### Exercises  
5. (a) Prove that the empty set $\varnothing$ is a function with domain $\varnothing$.  
**Prove:** From $\varnothing$ to $\varnothing$ could not have anything to compose a pair, then $\varnothing$ could be a empty relation by $\varnothing \subseteq \varnothing * \varnothing = \varnothing$, then also the domain of $\varnothing$ is $\varnothing$, and the definition (ii) of function is empty true. Thus $\varnothing$ is a function with domain of $\varnothing$.  
(b) Prove that if $f: A \rightarrow B$ and any one of $f, A, \text{or~Rng}(f)$ is empty, then all three are empty.  
**Prove:** (i) if $f$ is empty, then by (a) already prove the domain of $f$ is empty. Beacause there is no element in $f$ thus there is no element in Rng($f$) then Rng($f$) is empty. (ii) if $A$ is empty, consider Rng($f$) by definition $\text{Rng}(f) = \{y \in B: \exist x \in A ~\text{such~that}~ x R y\}$, because there no element in $A$, so $\text{Rng}(f)$ is empty. Then $f$ is also empty. (iii) if $\text{Rng}(f)$ is empty, like (ii) $\text{Dom}(f)$ and $f$ are empty.  

## 4.2 Construction of Functions  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
The composite of $f ~\text{and}~ g$ is the relation from $A ~\text{to} ~C$: $g \circ f = \{(x,z): \text{there~exist~}y \in B ~\text{such~that~}(x,y) \in f~ \text{and~}(y,z) ~\in g\}$.  
The inverse of $f$ is: $f^{-1}=\{(x,y):(y,x)\in f \}$. Note: sometimes the inverse of a function is a funciotn, sometimes not.  
* Definition 2  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$, and let $D \subseteq A$. The restriction of $f \text{~to~} D$ is the function $f\mid_D = \{(x,y):y = f(x) \text{~and~} x \in D\}$. If $g$ and $h$ are functions and $g$ is a restriction of $h$ we say $h$ is an extension of $g$.  
* Definition 3  
Let $f$ be a real function defined on an interval $I$. Then $f$ is increasing on $I$ if $x < y \Rightarrow f(x) < f(y)$ for $x,y$ in $I$. And, $f$ is decreasing on $I$ if $x < y \Rightarrow f(x) > f(y)$ for $x, y$ in $I$.  

### Theroem 4.2.1  
Let $A, B$ and $C$ be sets, and let $f: A \rightarrow B$ and $g:B \rightarrow C$. Then $g \circ f$ is a function from $A ~\text{to}~ C$, and $\text{Dom}(g \circ f) = A$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $(x, z) \text{~and~} (x, z^o) \in g \circ f$, then $(y, z) \text{~and~} (y, z^o) \in g$, and because $g$ is a function we have $z = z^o$. $\forall x \in A$, we have $(x, y) \in f$ and because $y \in B$, then have must have $(y ,z) \in g$, then have $(x, z) \in g \circ f$. Thus $\forall x \in A$, have $(x, z) \in g \circ f$ and $Dom(f \circ g) = A$.   

### Theroem 4.2.2  
Let $A, B, C$ and $D$ be sets, and let $f:A \rightarrow B, g:B \rightarrow C, \text{~and~} h:C \rightarrow D$. Then $(h \circ g) \circ f = h \circ (g \circ f)$.  
**Prove:** We have $h \circ g: B \rightarrow D$ and $f:A \rightarrow B$, the $Dom((h \circ g) \circ f) = A$ by Theroem 4.2.1. Likely, $Dom(h \circ (g \circ f)) = A = Dom((h \circ g) \circ f)$. The rest is skip.  

### Theroem 4.2.3  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$. Then $f \circ I_A = f$ and $I_B \circ f$ = $f$.  
**Prove:** By Theroem 4.2.1, we have $Dom(I_B \circ f) = Dom(f) = A$. $\forall (x, y) \in f$, because $y \in B$, $(y, y) \in I_B$, thus $(x, y) \in I_B \circ f$. The rest is skip.  

### Theroem 4.2.4  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$ with $Rng(f) = C$. If $f^{-1}$ is a function, then $f^{-1} \circ f = I_A$ and $f \circ f^{-1} = I_C$.  
**Prove:** Miss.  

### Theroem 4.2.5  
Let $h$ and $g$ be functions with $Dom(h) = A$ and $Dom(g) = B$. If $A ~\bigcap ~B = \varnothing$, then $h ~ \bigcup ~ g$ is a function with domain $A ~ \bigcup ~ B$. Furthemore, $\begin{matrix}(h ~\bigcup~ g)(x)=\begin{cases}h(x),&\text{if} ~ x \in A \\g(x),&\text{if} ~ x \in B \end{cases}\end{matrix}$.  
**Prove:** Let $(x,y)$ and $(x,z)$ in $h ~\bigcup~ g$. If $(x, y) \in h$ and $(x, z) \in g$, we have $x \in A$ and $x \in B$, then $A ~\bigcap ~B \ne \varnothing$, contradiction. Then $(x,y)$ and $(x,z)$ either together in $g$ or together in $h$ whatever we could get $y = z$. The rest is skip.  

### Exercises  
Temp Skip.  

## 4.3 Functions That Are Onto; One-to-One Functions  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
A function $f: A \rightarrow B$ is onto B (or is a surjection) if $Rng(f) = B$.  
* Definition 2  
A function $f:A \rightarrow B$ is one-to-one(or is an injection) if whenever $f(x) = f(y)$, then $x = y$.  

### Example  
Let $s:(- \infty, 0] \rightarrow [-4, \infty)$ be defined by $s(x) = x^2 - 4$. Prove that $s$ is onto $[-4, \infty)$.  
**Prove**: $\forall y \in [-4, \infty)$ have $y \ge -4$, then suppose $x = -\sqrt{y + 4}$ is exist. Thus $s(x) = (-\sqrt{y + 4})^2 - 4 = y$. So $s$ is onto.  

### Theroem 4.3.1  
If $f: A \rightarrow B$ is onto $B$ and $g:B \rightarrow C$ is onto $C$, then $g \circ f$ is onto $C$.  
**Prove**: Suppose $c \in C$, exists $b \in B$ such that $g(b) = C$, then exists $a \in A$ such that $f(a) = b$. Thus have $(g \circ f)(a) = c$ and $g \circ f$ is onto $C$.  

### Theroem 4.3.2  
Let $f: A \rightarrow B$ and $g:B \rightarrow C$. If $g \circ f$ is onto $C$, then $g$ is onto $C$.  

### Theroem 4.3.3  
If $f:A \rightarrow B$ is one-to-one and $g:B \rightarrow C$ is one-to-one, then $g \circ f$ is one-to-one.  

### Theroem 4.3.4  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$ and $g:B \rightarrow C$. If $g \circ f$ is one-to-one, then $f$ is one-to-one.  
**Prove**: Suppose $f$ is not one-to-one, then have $x \ne y, f(x) = f(y)$ and $g(f(x)) = g(f(y))$. Thus $g \circ f$ is not one-to-one which is contradiction.  

### Theroem 4.3.5  
If $f:A \rightarrow B$ is one-to-one, then every restriction of $f$ is one-to-one.  

### Theroem 4.3.6  
Let $h:A \rightarrow C$ and $g:B \rightarrow D$ be functions.  
(a) If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint sets, $h$ is onto D and $g$ is onto $D$, then $h ~ \bigcup ~ g: A ~\bigcup ~B \rightarrow C ~ \bigcup ~ D$ is onto $C ~ \bigcup ~ D$.  
**Prove**: By Theroem 4.2.5, $h ~ \bigcup ~ g$ is a function. Let $y \in C ~ \bigcup ~ D$, if $y \in C$ we have $\exist x \in A, h(x) = y$, if $y \in D$ have $\exist x \in B, g(x) = y$, and if $\exist y \in C ~ \bigcap ~ D$, have $x \in A$ and $x^o \in B$ such that $h(x) = g(x^o) = y$. Thus $h ~ \bigcup ~ g$ is onto $C ~ \bigcup ~ D$.  
(b) (a) If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint sets, $h$ is one-to-one, $g$ is one-to-one, $C$ and $D$ are disjoint, then $h ~ \bigcup ~ g: A ~\bigcup ~B \rightarrow C ~ \bigcup ~ D$ is one-to-one.  

### Exercises  
11. Prove that if the real-valued function is increasing(or decreasing) on $R$, then $f$ is one-to-one.  
**Prove**: Suppose $f$ is not one-to-one, then let $x \ne y, f(x) = f(y)$. So if $x \ne y$, have $x < y$ or $x > y$, which will lead to contradiction with increasing function of $f$. Closed.  

## 4.4 Inverse Functions  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
A funcion $f:A \rightarrow B$ is a one-to-one correspondence(or a bijection) if $f$ is one-to-one and onto $B$.  
* Definition 2  
Let $A$ be a nonempty set. A permutation of $A$ is one-to-one correspondence from $A$ onto $A$.  

### Example  
The mapping $f:(0, \infty) \rightarrow (0, 1)$ given by $f(x) = \frac{1}{x + 1}$ is a bijection.  
**Prove**: (i) Suppose $f(x) = f(y), 0 < f(x), f(y) < 1$, have $\frac{1}{x + 1} = \frac{1}{y + 1} \Rightarrow x + 1 = y + 1 \Rightarrow x = y$, then $f$ is one-to-one. (ii) Supose $\forall y \in (0, 1)$, $y = \frac{1}{x + 1} \Rightarrow x = \frac{1}{y} - 1$. And if $x = \frac{1}{y} - 1$, because $0 < y < 1$, then $0 < \frac{1}{y} - 1 < \infty$, which means we could find a such $x \in (0, \infty)$ that $y = \frac{1}{x + 1}$. Thus $f$ is onto $(0, 1)$ and bijection.  

### Theorem 4.4.1  
If $f:A \rightarrow B$ is a bijection and $g:B \rightarrow C$ is a bijection, then $g \circ f:A \rightarrow C$ is a bijection.  

### Theorem 4.4.2  
Let $f$ be a function from set $A$ to set $B$.  
(a) $f^{-1}$ is a function from $Rng(f)$ to $A$ iff $f$ is one-to-one.  
**Prove**: If $f^{-1}$ is a function, suppose $f$ is not one-to-one, then have $x \ne y$ such that $f(x) = f(y) = z\Rightarrow (z, x) \text{~and~} (z, y) \in f^{-1}$ which will lead contradiction with $f^{-1}$ being a function. If $f$ is one-to-one, suppose $f^{-1}(x) = f^{-1}(y) = z \Rightarrow (z, x) \text{~and~} (z, y) \in f^{-1} \Rightarrow (x, z) \text{~and~} (y, z) \in f \Rightarrow x = y$ because $z = z$, thus $f^{-1}$ is a function.  
(b) If $f^{-1}$ is a function, then $f^{-1}$ is one-to-one.  
**Prove**: Suppose $f^{-1}(x) = f^{-1}(y) = z$, and because $f^{-1}$ is a function, there is only one $z$ such that $(x, z), (y, z) \in f^{-1}$, then $(z, x),(z, y) \in f \Rightarrow x = y$. Thus $f^{-1}$ is one-to-one.  

### Corollary 4.4.3  
The inverse of a one-to-one correspondence is a one-to-one correspondence.  
**Prove**:  Let $f:A \rightarrow B$ is a one-to-one correspondence. (i) If $(x, z),(x, y) \in f^{-1} \Rightarrow (z, x), (y, x) \in f \Rightarrow y = z \text{~ and ~} \forall y \in B, (x, y) \in f \Rightarrow (y, x) \in f^{-1} \Rightarrow Dom(f^{-1}) = B$. Thus $f^{-1}$ is a function. (ii) Suppose $\forall x \in A$ have $(x, y) \in f \Rightarrow (y, x) \in f^{-1} \Rightarrow A \subseteq Rng(f^{-1}) \Rightarrow f^{-1}$ is onto $A$. (iii) Proof of $f^{-1}$ being one-to-one is skip.    

### Theorem 4.4.4  
If $f$ is a function from $A$ to $B$ and $g$ is a function from $B$ ot $A$, then (a) $g = f^{-1}$ iff $g \circ f = I_A$ and $f\circ g = I_B$.  
(b) If $f$ is a one-to-one correspondence, then $g = f^{-1}$ iff $g \circ f = I_A$ or $f \circ g = I_B$.  
**Prove**: If $g \circ f = I_A$, $(g \circ f) \circ f^{-1} = I_A \circ f^{-1} \Rightarrow g = f^{-1}$ by (a) and Theorem 4.2.2. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 4.4.5  
Let $A$ be a nonempty set. Then  
(a) the identity mapping $I_A$ is a permutation of $A$.  
(b) the composite of permutations of $A$ is a permutation of $A$.  
(c) the inverse of a permutation of $A$ is a permutation of $A$.  
(d) if $f$ is a permutation of $A$, then $f \circ I_A = I_A \circ f = f$.  
(e) if $f$ is a permutation of $A$, then $f \circ f^{-1} = f^{-1} \circ f = I_A$.  
(f) if $f$ and $g$ are permutations of $A$, then $(g \circ f)^{-1} = f^{-1} \circ g^{-1}$.  
**Prove**: By (b) and (c), have $Dom(g \circ f)^{-1} = Dom(f^{-1} \circ g^{-1}) = A$, and by (d) of Theorem 3.1.2 have $(g \circ f)^{-1}(x) = (g^{-1} \circ f^{-1})(x)$.  

### Exercises  
6. Let $f:A \rightarrow B$ and $g:B \rightarrow A$. Prove that if $g \circ f = I_A$ and $f \circ g = I_B$, then $f$ and $g$ is one-to-one correspondence.  
**Prove**: Just prove $f$ is one-to-one correspondence function. (i) Because $g \circ f = I_A$, by previous theorem have $Dom(f) = Dom(I_A) = A, Rng(f) = B, Rng(g) = A, g = f^{-1}, \text{~and~} f = g^{-1}$. Let $(x, y), (x, z) \in f, (y, y), (z, z) \in f \circ g$ and $(z, x), (y, x) \in g$. If $z \ne y$, have $(y, z), (y, y) \in I_B$ which contradiction with $z \ne y$. Thus $z = y$ and $f$ is a function. (ii) Let $f(x) = f(y) = z,$ suppose $x \ne y$, have $(x, x), (x, y) \in I_A$ which contradiction with $x \ne y$. (iii) In (i), already prove $Rng(f) = B$.  

8. Prove that if $f:A \rightarrow B, g:B \rightarrow C$ and $h:C \rightarrow A$ are one-to-one correspondences, then $f^{-1} \circ g^{-1} \circ h^{-1}$ is a permutation of $A$.  
**Prove**: By previous theorem, $f^{-1}g^{-1}$ and $h^{-1} $ are one-to-one correspondences, then $f^{-1} \circ g^{-1} \circ h^{-1}:A \rightarrow A$ is one-to-one correspondences and a permutation of $A$.  

## 4.5 Set Images  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$, and let $X \subseteq A$ and $Y \subseteq B$. The image of $X$ or image set of $X$ is $f(X) = \{y \in B: y = f(x) \text{~ for some~} x \in X \}$, and the inverse image of $Y$ is $f^{-1}(Y) = \{x \in A: f(x) \in Y\}$.  
* Defintion 2  
Let $f:A \rightarrow B$, then every subset $X$ of $A$ has a corresponding image set $f(X)$ that is a subset of $B$. This correspondence is a function from $P(A)$ to $P(B)$ called the induced function, $f:P(A) \rightarrow P(B)$. Note that we use the same symbol $f$.  

### Theorem 4.5.1  
Let $f: A \rightarrow B, C$ and $D$ be subsets of $A$, $E$ and $F$ be subsets of $B$. Then  
(a) $f(C ~\bigcap~ D) \subseteq f(C) ~\bigcap~ f(D)$.  
**Prove**: $\forall y \in f(C ~\bigcap~ D) \Rightarrow y \in B ~\wedge~ x \in C ~\bigcap~ D$. Since $x \in C ~\bigcap~ D \Rightarrow x \in C ~ \wedge ~ x \in D$, then $(y \in B ~\wedge~ x \in C) ~ \wedge ~ (y \in B ~\wedge~ x \in D) \Rightarrow y \in f(C) ~\bigcap~ f(D)$.  
(b) $f(C ! \bigcup ~ D) = f(C) ~ \bigcup ~ f(D)$.  
**Prove**: $f(C ~ \bigcup ~ D) = \{y \in B: f(x) \text{~ for ~some ~x} \in C ~ \bigcup ~ D\} \Leftrightarrow \{y \in B: f(x) \text{~ for ~some ~x} \in C\}~ \vee ~ \{y \in B: f(x) \text{~ for ~some ~x} \in D\} = f(C) ~ \bigcup ~ f(D)$.   
(c) $f^{-1}(E \bigcap F) = f^{-1}(E) \bigcap f^{-1}(F)$.  
(d) $f^{-1}(E \bigcup F) = f^{-1}(E) \bigcup f^{-1}(F)$.  

### Exercises  
8. Let $f:A \rightarrow B, C_1 \subseteq C_2 \subseteq A$ and $D_1 \subseteq D_2 \subseteq B$.  
(a) Which must be true, $f(C_1) \subseteq f(C_2)$ or $f(C_2) \subseteq f(C_1)$? Prove that your answer ir correct, and give a counterexampleto show that the other may be false.  
**Prove**: $\forall y \in f(C_1) \Rightarrow y = f(x)$ for some $x \in C_1$, because $C_1 \subseteq C_2$, then we have $y = f(x)$ some $x \in C_2 \Rightarrow y \in f(C_2) \Rightarrow f(C_1) \subseteq f(C_2)$. The rest is skip.  
(b) Like (a), which must be true, $f^{-1}(D_1) \subseteq f^{-1}(D_2)$ or $f^{-1}(D_2) \subseteq f^{-1}(D_1)$?  

10. Let $f:A \rightarrow B$, and let $\{D_a: a \in \triangle\}$ and $\{E_{\beta}: \beta \in \Gamma \}$ be families of $A$ and $B$, respectively. Prove that  
(a) $f(\bigcap \limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) \subseteq \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a)$.  
**Prove**: $\forall y \in f(\bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) \Rightarrow y = f(x)$ for some $x \in \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a$. Because $x \in \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a \Rightarrow \forall a \in \triangle, x \in D_a$, then $y \in (\forall a \in \triangle) f(D_a) \Rightarrow y \in \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a)$. Thus $f(\bigcap \limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) \subseteq \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a)$.  
(b) $f(\bigcup \limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) = \bigcup\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a)$.  
(c) $f^{-1}(\bigcap \limits_{\beta \in \Gamma} E_{\beta}) = \bigcap\limits_{\beta \in \Gamma}f^{-1}(E_{\beta})$.  
(d) $f^{-1}(\bigcup \limits_{\beta \in \Gamma} E_{\beta}) = \bigcup\limits_{\beta \in \Gamma}f^{-1}(E_{\beta})$.  

11. Give an example of a function of $f:R \rightarrow R$ and a family $\{D_a: a \in \triangle\}$ of subsets of $R$ such that $f(\bigcap \limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) \ne \bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a)$.  
**Answer**: Let $\triangle = \{1,2\}, D_1 = \{1,2,3\}, D_2 = \{2,3,4\}, f = \{(1,2),(2,3), (3,3),(4,2)\}$. Then $f(\bigcap \limits_{a \in \triangle} D_a) = f(\{2,3\}) = \{3\}$ and $\bigcap\limits_{a \in \triangle}f(D_a) = f(D_1) ~ \bigcap ~ f(D_2) = \{2,3\} ~ \bigcap ~ \{2,3\} = \{2,3\}$. Obviously, $\{3\} \ne \{2.3\}$.  

12. Let $f: A \rightarrow B, D \subseteq A$, and $E \subseteq B$. Prove that  
(a) $f(f^{-1}(E)) \subseteq E$.  
**Prove**: $f(f^{-1}(E)) = \{y \in B: y = f(x), x \in \{z \in A: f(z) \in E \} \}$, If $y \in f(f^{-1}(E)), y = f(x)$ which $x$ is in $\{z \in A: f(z) \in E \}$, means that $y = f(x) \in E \Rightarrow y \in E$. Thus $f(f^{-1}(E)) \subseteq E$.  
(b) $A - f^{-1}(E) \subseteq f^{-1}(B - E)$.  
(c) $f^{-1}(B - E) \subseteq A - f^{-1}(E)$.  
(d) $E = f(f^{-1}(E))$ iff $E \subseteq Rng(f)$.  
**Prove**: If $E = f(f^{-1}(E))$, have $E \subseteq f(f^{-1}(E)) \subseteq Rng(f) \Rightarrow E \subseteq Rng(f)$. If $E \subseteq Rng(f)$, by (a) already have $f(f^{-1}(E)) \subseteq E$, now show $E \subseteq f(f^{-1}(E))$. $\forall y \in E$, first we have $y \in B$, and because $y \in Rng(f)$ have $\exist x\in A$ such that $f(x) = y$. Since $y \in E$ and $y = f(x)$ have $x \in f^{-1}(E)$. Now $y \in B$ and exists $x \in f^{-1}(E)$ such that $y = f(x) \Rightarrow y \in f(f^{-1}(E)) \Rightarrow E \subseteq f(f^{-1}(E))$.  
(e) $D \subseteq f^{-1}(f(D))$.  
(f) $D \subseteq f^{-1}(f(D))$ iff $f(A - D) \subseteq B - f(D)$.  
(g) $f(f^{-1}(E)) E ~ \bigcap ~ Rng(f)$.  

13.  Let $f:A \rightarrow B$, and let $X, Y \subseteq A$ and $U, V \subseteq B$. Prove that  
(a) $f(X) \subseteq U$ iff $X \subseteq f^{-1}(U)$.  
(b) $f(X) - f(Y) \subseteq f(X - Y)$.  
(c) $f^{-1}(U) - f^{-1}(V) = f^{-1}(U - V)$.  

14.  Let $f:A \rightarrow B$. Prove that  
(a) if $f$ is one-to-one, then $f(X) ~ \bigcap ~ f(Y) = f(X ~ \bigcap ~ Y)$ for all $X, Y \subseteq A$.  
(b) if $f(X) ~ \bigcap ~ f(Y) = f(X ~ \bigcap ~ Y)$ for all $X, Y \subseteq A$, then $f$ is one-to-one.  
(c) if $X \subseteq A$ and $f$ is one-to-one, then $f(A - X) = f(A) - f(X)$.  
(d) if $X \subseteq A, Y \subseteq B$, and $f$ is a bijection, then $f(X) = Y$ iff $f^{-1}(Y) = X$.  

15.  Let $f:A \rightarrow B$.  
(a) What condition on $f$ will ensure that the induced function $f:P(A) \rightarrow P(B)$ is one-to-one?  
(b) What condition on $f$ will ensure that the induced function $f:P(A) \rightarrow P(B)$ is onto $P(B)$?   

## 4.6 Sequences  
### Content  
* definition 1  
For a sequences $x$ of real numbers and a real number $L$, we say $x$ has limit $L$ (or x converges to $L$) if $\forall \epsilon > 0, \exist N, st.~ n > N, |x_n - L| < \epsilon$. When $x$ converges to the real numbers $L$, we write $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} x_n = L$ or $x_n \rightarrow L$. If no such number $L$ exists we say $x$ diverges or $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty}x_n$ does not exists.  

### Theorem 4.6.1  
If a sequence $x$ converges, then its limit is unique.  
**Prove**: Suppose $L_1 \ne L_2$ and $L1, L_2$ are the limit of $x_n$. Let $L_1 = d + L_2$ which $d > 0$ and let some natural number $N$ such that $\epsilon = \frac{d}{3}, n > N, x_n \rightarrow L_1$ and $x_n \rightarrow L_2$. $\frac{2}{3}d > |x_n - L_1| + |x_n - L_2| > |x_n - L_1 - x_n + L_2| = |d| \Rightarrow \frac{2}{3}d > d$, this is a contradiction.  

### Theroem 4.6.2  
Suppose that $a, b$ and $c$ are sequences of real numbers such that $a_n \le b_n \le c_n$ for all $n \in N$. If $a_n \rightarrow L$ and $c_n \rightarrow L$, then $b_n \rightarrow L$.  
**Prove**: If $b_n \rightarrow D$ which $D = L + e$ for $e > 0$, $|b_n - L - e| < \epsilon \Rightarrow |c_n - h - L - e| < \epsilon \Rightarrow c_n \rightarrow L + h + e \ne L$, contradiction. The proof of showing the existence of $b_n$'s limit is skip.  

### Exercises  
6. Prove that if $x_n \rightarrow L, y_n \rightarrow M$ and $r \in \R$, then  
(a) $x_n + y_n \rightarrow L + M$.  
**Prove**: $|x_n + y_n - L - M| < |x_n - L| + |y_n - M| < \epsilon$. Some condition and the rest is skip.
(b) $x_n - y_n \rightarrow L - M$.  
**Prove**: Like (a), $|x_n - y_n - L + M| < |x_n - L| + |y_n - M| < \epsilon$.
(c) $-x_n \rightarrow -L$.  
**Prove**: Think $0 - x_n = - x_n$, then use (b) we could prove $-x_n \rightarrow -L$.  
(d) $rx_n \rightarrow rL$.  
**Prove**: Think $x_n + x_n = 2x_n$, use (a) or (b) to prove. Skip.  
(e) $x_ny_n \rightarrow LM$.  
**Prove**: $|x_ny_n - LM| = |x_ny_n + Ly_n - Ly_n - LM| = |y_n(x_n - L) + L(y_n - M)| < |y_n||x_n - L| + |L||y_n - M| < \epsilon$.  
(f) $|x_n| \rightarrow |L|$.  
**Prove**: $|L| - |x_n| < ||x_n| - |L|| < |x_n| - |L| \Rightarrow  -\epsilon < -|x_n - L| < |L| - |x_n| < ||x_n| - |L|| < |x_n| - |L| < |x_n - L| < \epsilon \Rightarrow -\epsilon < ||x_n| - |L|| < \epsilon \Rightarrow |x_n| \rightarrow |L|$.  

7. Prove that if $x_n \rightarrow L, y_n \rightarrow M, L \ne 0, M \ne 0$ and $x_n \ne 0$ for all $n$, then  
(a) there is a number $N$ such that if $n \ge N$, then $|x_n| > \frac{|L|}{2}$.  
(b) $\frac{y_n}{x_n} \rightarrow \frac{M}{L}$.  

8. (a)  Given convergent sequences $x$ and $y$, prove that if $x_n \le y_n$ for all natural numbers $n$, then $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} x_n \le \lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} y_n$.  
(b) Use (a) to prove that if a sequence $x$ converges to a real number $L$ and $x_n \ge 0$ for all natural numbers $n$, then $L \ge 0$.  
(c) Prove or find a counterexample: given convergent sequences $x$ and $y$, if $x_n < y_n$ for all natural numbers $n$, then $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} x_n < \lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} y_n$.  

## 4.7 Limits and Continuity of Real Functions  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $a$ be a real number, $I$ be an open interval that contains $a$, and $f$ be a real function such that $f$ is defined on $I$, except possibly at $a$. We say that the limit of $f$ as $x$ approaches $a$ is $L$, and write $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = L$ (or $f(x) \rightarrow L$). If for every number $\epsilon > 0$, there exists a number $\delta > 0$ such that if $0 < |x - a| < \delta$, then $|f(x) - L| < \epsilon$.  
* Definition 2  
Let $f$ be a real function defined on an interval $D$ containing $a$. We say that $f$ is continuous at $a$ if for every $\epsilon > 0$ there exist $\delta > 0$ such that $|f(x) - f(a)| < \epsilon$ whenever $|x - a| < \delta$ and $x \in D$.  

### Theorem 4.7.1  
Let $f$ be a linear function $f(x) = mx + b$. Then for every real number $a$, the limit of $f$ as $x$ approaches $a$ is $f(a)$.  

### Theorem 4.7.2  
Suppose that $I$ is an open interval containing the real number $a$, $f$ and $g$ are two functions defined on $I$, except possibly at $a$, and $f(x) = g(x)$ for all $x \in I - \{a\}$. If $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x)$ exists, then $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} g(x)$ exists, and $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} g(x)$.  

### Theorem 4.7.3 Sequential Characterization of Limits  
Let $a$ be a real number, $I$ an open interval that contains $a$, and $f$ a function defined on $I$, except possibly at $a$. Then $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = L$ iff $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} f(x_n) = L$ for every sequence $x_n$ with terms in $I - \{a\}$ such that $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} x_n = a$.  
**Prove**: If $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = L$ and $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} x_n = a$ for a real number $\delta > 0$ and an natural number $N$. Let $n > N$, we have $|x_n - a| < \epsilon$, set $x_n = y$, then $|y - a| < \epsilon < \delta$ and $|f(y) - L| < \epsilon_f \Rightarrow |f(x_n) - L| < \epsilon_y$. Thus $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} f(x_n) = L$.  
If $\lim\limits_{n \rightarrow \infty} f(x_n) = L$ for every sequence $x_n$ with terms in $I - \{a\}$ such that $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} x_n = a$. Let $N, \epsilon_{1}$ and $\epsilon_{2}$ are the conditions. Set the $\delta = \epsilon_{1}$, if $|y - a| < \delta = \epsilon_{1}$, every $y \in I - \{a\}$ have a $n$ such that $x_n = y$, then have $n > N$ to meet $|x_n - a| < \delta = \epsilon_{1}$, and $n > N$ we have $|f(x_n) - L| < \epsilon_{2} \Rightarrow |f(y) - L| < \epsilon_{2} < \epsilon$. Thus $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = L$.  

### Theorem 4.7.4  
For functions $f$ and $g$, suppose that $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = b$ and $g$ is continuous at $b$. Then $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} g(f(x)) = g(b)$.  
**Prove**: If $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = b$, have a $\delta_{f} > 0$ meet the condition and for $g$ is continuous at $b$ have a $\delta_{g} > 0$. We could set $\delta_{gf} = min(\delta_{f}, \delta_{g})$, if $|x - a| < \delta_{gf} = \delta_{f}$, have $|f(x) - b| < \epsilon$, set $f(x) = y$ have $|y - b| < \epsilon \le \delta_{g} \Rightarrow |g(y) - g(b)| < \epsilon$ because $g$ is continuous at $b$. Thus $|g(f(x)) - g(b)| < \epsilon$ and $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} g(f(x)) = g(b)$.  

### Theorem 4.7.5  
For functions $f$ and $g$, suppose that $f$ is continuous at $a$ and $g$ is continuous at $f(a)$. Then $g \circ f$ at $a$.  
**Prove**: Set $\delta_{gf} = min(\delta_{f}, \delta_{g})$, if $|x - a| < \delta_{gf} \Rightarrow |f(x) - f(a)| < \epsilon, \text{~set~} y = f(x) \Rightarrow |y - f(a)| < \epsilon \le \delta_{g} \Rightarrow |g(y) - g(f(a))| < \epsilon \Rightarrow |g(f(x)) - g(f(a))| < \epsilon$. Thus $g \circ f$ is continuous at $a$.  

### Exercises  
3. Let $a$ be a real number, $I$ an open interval that contains $a$, $f$ and $g$ functions defined on $I$, except possibly at $a$. Prove that if $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) = L, \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} g(x) = M$, and $r$ is a real number, then  
(a) $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) + g(x) = L + M$.  
**Prove**: $|f(x) + g(x) - L - M| < |f(x) - L| + |g(x) - M| < \epsilon$. The rest is skip.  
(b) $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) - g(x) = L - M$.  
(c) $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) * g(x) = LM$.  
(d) $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} rf(x) = rL$.  
(e) If $g(x) \ne 0$ for all $x \in I, L \ne 0, M \ne 0$, then $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x)/g(x) = L/M$.  
(f) for all $n \in N, \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} x^n = a^n$.  
**Prove**: Use induction. If $n = 0, \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} x^0 = a^0$ is true. Suppose when $n = N, \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} x^N = a^N$ is also true, then we show when $n = N + 1, \lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} x^{N + 1} = a^{N + 1}$ is true.  Let $f(x) = x^N, g(x) = x$, use (c) have $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow a} f(x) * g(x) = a^N * a = a^{N + 1}$, and $f(x) * g(x) = x^{N + 1}$. Closed.  

5. Let $a$ be a real number. Prove that every polynomial $p(x) = b_nx^n + b_{n - 1}x^{n - 1} + ... + b_0$ is continuous at $a$.  
**Prove**:  Use exercises 7 could easily prove this question. The rest is skip.  

7. Prove that if $f$ and $g$ are continuous at $a$, then $f + g$ is continuous at $a$.  
**Prove**: $|f(x) + g(x) - f(a) - g(a)| < |f(x) - f(a)| + |g(x) - g(a)| < \epsilon$. The rest is skip.  