# Cardinality    
## 5.1 Equivalent Sets; Finite Sets  
### Conetent  
* Definition 1  
Two sets $A$ and $B$ are equivalent if there exists a one-to-one function from $A$ onto $B$. The sets are also said to in one-to-one correspondence, and we write $A \approx B$. If $A$ and $B$ are not equivalent, we write $A \not\approx B$.  
Note: in this chapter $A \approx B$ will denote that $A, B$ meets definition 1.  
* Definition 2  
For each natural number $k$, let $N_k = \{1,2,3,...,k\}$. A set $S$ is finite if $S = \varnothing$ or $S \approx N_k$ for some $k \in N$. A set is infinite if $S$ is not a finite set.  
* Definition 3  
Let $S$ be a finite set. If $S = \varnothing$, then $S$ has cardinal number 0 (or cardinality 0). We write $\widehat{S} = 0$. If $S \approx N_k$, we write $\widehat{S} = k$.  

### Example  
For $a, b, c, d \in R$, with $a < b, c < d$, the open intervals $(a, b)$ and $(c, d)$ are equivalent.  
**Prove**: Think about a line its x-interval is $(a, b)$ and y-interval is $(c, d)$. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 5.1.1  
Equivalence of sets is an equivalence relation on the class of all sets.  
**Prove**: Let $R$ be an equivalence relation of equivalence of sets. Obviously, for every set must have a one-to-one function from itself onto itself, then R is reflexive. If $(X, Y) \in R$, suppose $f$ is a one-to-one function from $X$ onto $Y$, according to previous 4th chapter of Functions, we could get another $f^{-1}$ from $Y$ onto $X$ also be a one-to-one function, then $(Y, X) \in R$. Similarly if $(X, Y), (Y, Z) \in R$, we cloud get $(X, Z) \in R$. Closed.  

### Theorem 5.1.2  
Suppose that $A, B, C$ and $D$ are sets with $A \approx C$ and $B \approx D$.  
(a) If $A, B$ are disjoint and $C, D$ are disjoint, then $A ~ \bigcup ~ B \approx C ~ \bigcup ~ D$.  
(b) $A * B \approx C * D$.  
**Prove**: Let $f$ from $A$ to $C$, $g$ from $B$ to $D$. Let $h((x, y)) = (f(x), g(y))$ from $A * B \text{~ to ~} C * D$. Now we show the $h$ is a one-to-one correspondence function. The proof is skip.  

### Lemma 5.1.3  
If $A$ is finite and $B \approx A$, then $B$ is finite.  

### Lemma 5.1.4  
If $S$ is a finite set with cardinality $k$ and $x$ is any object not in $S$, then $S ~ \bigcup ~ \{x\}$ is finite and has cardinality $k + 1$.  

### Theorem 5.1.5  
For every $k \in N$, every subset of $N_k$ is finite.  
**Prove**: If $k = 0$, $N_k = \varnothing$, the subset of $N_k$ also be empty set and finite. Suppose $k = n \in N$, every subset of $N_n$ is finite. Now show when $k = n + 1$, every subset of $N_{n + 1}$ is also finite. Because every subset of $N_n$ is a subset of $N_{n + 1}$, we focus on the situation of $A \subseteq N_{n + 1}$ being not the subset of $N_n$. $N_{n + 1} = N_n ~\bigcup~ \{n + 1\}$, and $N_n, \{n + 1\}$ are disjoint. $\forall x \in A, x \in N_n$ or $x \in \{n + 1\}$. Thus if $A \subseteq N_{n + 1}$ being not the subset of $N_n$, $A$ contain $n + 1$ (use contradiction to prove). Let $A = B ~\bigcup~ \{n + 1\}$, $\forall x \in B \Rightarrow x \in N_{n + 1} ~ \wedge ~ x \notin \{n + 1\} \Rightarrow x \in N_n \Rightarrow B \subseteq N_n$. $B$ is finite, and $B, \{n + 1\}$ are disjoint, then using Lemma 5.1.4, we have that $A$ is finite. The induction is closed.  

### Theorem 5.1.6  
Every subset of a finite set is finite.  

### Theorem 5.1.7  
(a) (Theorem 2.6.1) If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint finite sets, then $A~\bigcup~B$ is finite, and $\widehat{A ~\bigcup ~ B} \approx \widehat{A} + \widehat{B}$.  
**Prove**: Let $A = N_a, B = N_b$, and suppose $N_c = \{a+1,...,a+b\}$. $A ~\bigcup~ B \approx N_a ~\bigcup ~ N_b = N_a ~\bigcup ~ N_c \Rightarrow \widehat{A ~\bigcup ~ B} = a + b = \widehat{A} + \widehat{B}$. The point is that we could easily find a one-to-one correspondence function from $N_b$ onto $N_c$ and $N_a, N_c$ are disjoint. The rest is skip.  
(b) (Theorem 2.6.3) If $A$ and $B$ are finite sets, then $A~\bigcup~B$ is finite, and $\widehat{A ~\bigcup ~ B} = \widehat{A} + \widehat{B} - \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B}$.  
**Prove**: $A ~\bigcup~ B = (A - B) ~\bigcup~ (A ~\bigcap~ B) ~\bigcup~ (B - A) \Rightarrow \widehat{A ~\bigcup~ B} = \widehat{A - B} + \widehat{A ~\bigcap~ B} + \widehat{B - A}$. And $(A - B) ~\bigcup~ (A ~\bigcap ~ B) = A \Rightarrow \widehat{A - B} + \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B} = \widehat{A} \Rightarrow \widehat{A - B} = \widehat{A} - \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B}$. Then $\widehat{A - B} + \widehat{A ~\bigcap~ B} + \widehat{B - A} = \widehat{A} - \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B} + \widehat{B} - \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B} + \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B} = \widehat{A} + \widehat{B} - \widehat{A ~\bigcap ~ B}$. The point is $A = (A - B) ~\bigcup~ (A ~\bigcap~ B)$. The rest is skip.  
(c) If $A_1,A_2,....,A_n$ are finite sets, then $\bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^n A_i$ is finite.  
**Prove**: Use (b) $n - 1$ times on $A_1,A_2,....,A_n$, final two finite sets are joint together to get a new set which also be finite by using (b) again. The formal proof by induction is skip.  

### Lemma 5.1.8  
Let $r \in N$, with $r > 1$. For all $x \in N_r, N_r - \{x\} \approx N_{r - 1}$.  
**Prove**: Because $r > 1$ then  $N_{r - 1} \ne \varnothing$. Suppose such function $\begin{matrix}f(n)=\begin{cases}n,&\text{if} ~ n < x \\ n - 1,&\text{if} ~ n > x\end{cases}\end{matrix}$. It is easy to prove this is one-to-one function from $N_r - \{x\}$ onto $N_{r - 1}$. The rest is skip.  
Another thought: $N_r = N_r - \{x\} ~\bigcup~ \{x\}$ and $N_r - \{x\}, \{x\}$ are disjoint, by Theorem 5.1.7 (a) we have $\widehat{N_r} = \widehat{N_r - \{x\}} + \widehat{\{x\}} \Rightarrow \widehat{N_r - \{x\}} = \widehat{N_r} - \widehat{\{x\}} = r - 1$. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 5.1.9 The Pigeonhole Principle  
Let $n, r \in N$ and $f: N_n \rightarrow N_r$. If $n > r$, then $f$ is not one-to-one.  

### Corollary 5.1.10  
If $\widehat{A} = n, \widehat{B} = r$ and $r < n$, then there is no one-to-one function from $A$ to $B$.  
**Prove**: If there is an one-to-one function from $A$ to $B$, by using Theorem 5.1.1, there also have a one-to-one function from $N_n$ to $N_r$. But this result is a contradiction with Theorem 5.1.9. Closed.  

### Corollary 5.1.11  
If $A$ is finite, then $A$ is not equivalent to any of its proper subsets.  
**Prove**: Suppose $A$ has a cardinal number $n$ which $n \ge 1$. Using Theorem 5.1.6, we know every subset of $A$ is finite. Let $a \subset A$ and $a$ has a cardinal number $k$. Because $n > k$ (proof is skip), there is no one-to-one function from $A$ onto $a$ according to Corollary 5.1.10.  

### Exercises  
7. Let $A$ and $B$ sets. Prove that
(a) if $A$ is finite, then $A ~\bigcap~ B$ is finite.  
**Prove**: Use Theorem 5.1.6.  
(b) if $A$ is infinite and $A \subseteq B$, then $B$ is infinite.  
**Prove**: If $B$ is not infinite, use Theorem 5.1.5 we have $A$ is not infinite too. Contradiction.  

9. (a) Show that $A \approx A * \{x\}$, for evert set $A$ and every object $x$.  
**Prove**:  Let $f:A \rightarrow A * \{x\}$ and $\forall a \in A, f(a) = (a, x)$. $f$ is a one-to-one function, then $A \approx A * \{x\}$. The rest is skip.  
(b) Use part(a) and Theorem 5.1.7 (c) to prove that if $A$ and $B$ are finite, $A * B$ is finite.  
**Prove**: $A * B = \{(a, b): a \in A ~\wedge~ b \in B\}$. Since $B$ is finite we coulde set every element $b \in B$ in a single set like $B_1 = \{b_1\}, B_2 = \{b_2\},.....,B_k = \{b_k\}$ and $B_1 ~\bigcup~ B_2 ....~\bigcup~ B_n = B$. Let $L_k = A * \{b_k\}$ is finite and $\bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^k L_i$ is also finite. Then $A * B = \bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^k L_i$ and $A * B$ is finite.  

10. Define $B^A$ to be the set of all functions from $A$ to $B$. Show that if $A$ and $B$ are finite, then $B^A$ is finite.  
**Prove**: Let $\widehat{A} = a$ and $\widehat{B} = b$, then $\widehat{B^A} = b^a$. Thus $B^A$ is finite. 

12. Prove that if $A$ is finite and $B$ is infinite, then $B - A$ is infinite.  
**Prove**: Suppose $B - A$ is finite and $A$ is finite. $B - A, A$ are disjoint, so $B - A ~\bigcup~ A$ is finite. Because $B = (B - A) ~\bigcup~ (A ~\bigcap~ B)$, we have $B \subseteq B - A ~\bigcup~ A$ and $B$ is finite, which is a contradiction.  

16. Prove of disprove:  
(a) If $C$ is an infinite set and $C \approx A ~\bigcup~ B$, then at least one of the sets $A$ or $B$ is infinite.  
**Prove**:  Suppose $A$ and $B$ are finite. Then $A ~\bigcup~ B \approx C$ also is finite, which is a contradiction.
(b) Suppose that $A$ is a set and $p$ is an object not in $A$. If $A = A ~\bigcup~ \{p\}$, then $A$ is infinite.  
**Prove**:  Suppose $A$ is finite, and $A, \{x\}$ are disjoint, then $A$ is a proper subset of $A ~\bigcup~ \{p\}$, by Corollary 5.1.11, $A \not\approx A ~\bigcup~ \{p\}$. Thus $A$ is infinte.  

17. Prove by induction on $n$ that if $r < n$ and $f:N_r \rightarrow N_n$, then $f$ is not onto $N_n$.  
**Prove**:  If $n = 0, r < n \Rightarrow N_r = \varnothing \Rightarrow Rng(f) = \varnothing \ne N_n$. Skip the induction hypothesis. Suppose $n = k + 1$ and if there exists a function $f$ from $r$ onto $k + 1$. The rest is skip because it seems the question have a mistake.  

18. Let $A$ and $B$ be finite sets with $A \approx B$. Suppose tha $f:A \rightarrow B$.  
(a) If $f$ is one-to-one, prove that $f$ is onto $B$.  
**Prove**: If $f$ is not onto $B$, there exist at least one element $b \in B$ such that $b \notin Rng(f)$. Let $L = Rng(f)$, obviously we have $N_L < N_B$ and for $f:A \rightarrow L$, $f$ is a one-to-one correspondence function, then we have $N_A \approx N_L$. However, we already have $N_A \approx N_B$, then have a contradiction with $N_L < N_B \approx N_A \approx N_L$.  
(b) If $f$ is onto $B$, prove that $f$ is one-to-one.  
**Prove**:  Like (a), suppose $f$ is not one-to-one, then there exists at least two elements $a, a^o \in A, a \ne a^o$ such that $f(a) = f(a^o)$. We could have a set $A^o = A - \{a^o\}$, and $g:A^o \rightarrow B, g(x) = f(x)$. Obviously, $g$ is a one-to-one correspondence function and $N_{A^o} \approx N_B \approx N_A$ but we know that $N_{A^o} < N_A$ which is a contradiction.  

19. Prove that if the domain of a function is finite, then the range is finite.  
**Prove**: Let $(x, y) \in f$, it's easy to get a one-to-one correspondence function $g: X \rightarrow f$, thus $f$ is finite. Then we could set $(x, y)_i, i \in N_k \approx X$. $\bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^k (x ,y)_i$ is finite and thus $\bigcup\limits_{i = 1}^k y_i = Rng(f)$ is also finite.  

20. Let $A$ be a finite set. Prove that if $A \approx N_n$ and $A \approx N_m$, then $n = m$.  
**Prove**: By Theorem 5.1.1, have $N_n = N_m$. Then $n = m$.  

## 5.2 Infinite Sets  
### Content  
* Introduction
To prove that a set is infinite using this definition, we assume that the set is finite and that such a correspondence exists for some natural number $k$, and then find a contradiction. Another approach to proving that a set $A$ is infinite is to make use of the contrapositive of Corollary 5.1.11: If A is equivalent to one of its proper subsets, then A is infinite.  
* Definition 1
The set $S$ is denumerable if $S \approx N$. For a denumerable set $S$, we say $S$ has cardinal number $\aleph_0$ (or cardinality $\aleph_0$) and write $\widehat{S} = \aleph_0$. About the $\aleph_0$, the subscript $0$ read naught or null, indicates that $\aleph_0$ is the samllest infinite cardinal number, just as the integer $0$ is the samllest finite cardinal number. The set $N$ is our standard set for the cardinal number $\aleph_0$. Then there may have $\aleph_1,\aleph_2.......,\aleph_n$. However, infinite set have more complex situation than finite set, we must use one-to-one correspondences to determine cardinality.  
* Definition 2  
A set $S$ is countable if $S$ is finite or denumerable. We say $S$ is uncountable if $S$ is not countable.  
* Definition 3  
A set $S$ has cardinality $c$ ( or cardinal number $c$) if $S$ is equivalent to $(0, 1)$. We write $\widehat{S} = c$, which has stands for continuum.  

### Theorem 5.2.1  
The set $N$ of natural number is infinite.  

### Theorem 5.2.2  
The set $Z$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** The $Z = \{n: n \in N\} ~\bigcup~ \{-1 * n: n \in N\}$. In previous section, we already have $\{2n : n \in N\} \approx N$ and $\{2n + 1: n \in N\} \approx N$. Suppose $g$ and $f$ are the two one-to-one correspondence function, and it's easy to construct another function $g: Z \rightarrow N ,\begin{matrix}g(n)=\begin{cases}f(|z + 1|),&\text{if} ~ z < 0 \\ g(z),&\text{if} ~ z \ge 0\end{cases}\end{matrix}$. The $g$ is a ont-to-one correspondence function and the rest is skip.  

### Theorem 5.2.3  
(a) The set $N * N$ is denumerable.  
(b) If $A$ and $B$ are denumerbale sets, then $A * B$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** $A \approx N$ and $B \approx N$, use Theorem 5.1.2 (b) we have $A * B \approx N * N \approx N$. Then $A * B$ is denumerable.  

### Theorem 5.2.4  
The open interval $(0, 1)$ is uncountable.  
**Prove:** First, the open interval $(1/2, 3/4)$ is a proper subset of $(0, 1)$, and use the example in 5.1 Section, it's easy to get $(1/2, 3/4) \approx (0, 1)$, thus $(0, 1)$ is infinite. Second, we must prove that there does not exist a one-to-one function from $N$ onto $(0, 1)$. Now suppose there exists a one-to-one correspondence function $f: N \rightarrow R$. Obviously we have $\begin{matrix}f(n)=\begin{cases}f(1) = 0.r_{11}r_{12}...r_{1n}...r_{1i}...,&\text{if} ~ n = 1 \\ f(2) = 0.r_{21}r_{22}...r_{2n}...r_{2i}...,&\text{if} ~ n = 2 \\ .... \\ f(j) = 0.r_{j1}r_{j2}...r_{jn}...r_{ji}...,&\text{if} ~ n = j \\ ..... \end{cases}\end{matrix}$. If we have a real number $a = 0.a_1a_2.....a_n....a_i...$ and $a_i \ne r_{ii}$, then for every number $n \in N$ have $f(n) \ne a$, then $f$ is not onto. Thus the open interval $(0, 1)$ is uncountable.  

### Theorem 5.2.5  
(a) Every open interval $(a ,b)$ is uncountable and has cardinality $c$.  
**Prove:** Use the example of in Section 5.1, there exists a line function $f$ such that $f:(a, b) \rightarrow (0, 1)$ is a one-to-one correspondence function. The rest is skip.  
(b) The set $R$ of all real numbers is uncountable and has cardintality $c$.  
**Prove:** The point is that we must find a function $f: (0, 1) \rightarrow R$ is one-to-one correspondence function.  $f(x) = tanh^{-1}(2x - 1)$ is a such function.  

### Exercises  
1. Prove that if $A$ is an infinite set and $A \approx B$, then $B$ is an infinite set.  
**Prove:** Suppose there eixsts such bijection function $f:A \rightarrow B$ and $g:A \rightarrow A^o, A^o \subsetneq A$. Then has $f(A^o) = B^o$, $B^o \subsetneq B \Rightarrow g^{-1}(f^{-1}(B^o)) = A \Rightarrow f(g^{-1}(f^{-1}(B^o))) = B$. Let $h = f(g^{-1}(f^{-1}))$, thus there exist a bijection function $h: B^o \rightarrow B$ and $B^o$ is a proper subset of $B$ which statisfy the conditions of being infinite set.  

2. Prove that each of these sets is infinite.  
(e) $(a, b) ~\bigcap~ Q$, for rational numbers $a, b$ with $a < b$.  
**Prove**: $(a ,b/2) ~\bigcap~ Q$ is a proper subset of $(a, b) ~\bigcap~ Q$, let function $f(x) = 2x$ from $(a ,b/2) ~\bigcap~ Q$ to $(a, b) ~\bigcap~ Q$. Suppose $p/d \in (a, b) ~\bigcap~ Q$, obviously have $0 < p/2d < (a ,b/2) ~\bigcap~ Q$ such that $f(p/2d) = 2 * p/2d = p/d$, thus $f$ is onto $(a ,b) ~\bigcap~ Q$. And If $p/d = q/m$, also have $p/2d = q/2m$, then $f$ is one-to-one function. So the $(a, b) ~\bigcap~ Q$ is infinite.  

12.  (d) If a set $A$ is infinite, then $A$ is equivalent to a proper subset of $A$.  

## 5.3 Countable Sets  
### Content  
* Introduction  
Because $N \subseteq Q \subseteq R$, and the cardinalities of $N$ and $R$ are $\aleph_0$ and $c$, it's easy to belive that $\widehat{Q}$ is $\aleph_0$ or $c$, or possibly some infinite cardinal number between them. There are infinitely many rationals between any two rational numbers, so you might also suspect that $Q$ is not denumerable. But Georg Cantor showed that $Q^+$(the positive rationals) is denumerable through a clever rearrangement of $Q^+$.  

### Theorem 5.3.1  
The set $Q^+$ of positive rational numbers in denumerable.  

### Theorem 5.3.2  
Every subset of a countable sets is countable.  

### Corollary 5.3.3  
A set $A$ is countable iff $A$ is equivalent to some subset of $N$.  
**Prove:** Show if $A$ is equivalent to some subset of $N$ then $A$ is countable. Let $S$ be subset of $N$. If $S$ is finite, obviously that $A$ is countable. If $N$ is infinite, use Theorem 5.3.3 we know that $S$ is also countable, then $A$ is countable.  

### Theorem 5.3.4  
If $A$ is denumerable, then $A ~\bigcup~ \{x\}$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** $A$ is denumerable then there exists a one-to-one correspondence function $f: N \rightarrow A$. And let $g$ is a function that $g(1) = x, g(2) = f(1), g(3) = f(2),....,g(n + 1) = f(n)$, obviously that $g$ is a one-to-one correspondence function from $A ~\bigcup~ \{x\}$ onto $N$.  

### Theorem 5.3.5  
If $A$ is denumerable and $B$ is finite, then $A ~\bigcup~ B$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Let $f: N \rightarrow A$ and $g: N^o = \{1,...,k\} \rightarrow B, k \in N$. Let $\begin{matrix}h(n)=\begin{cases} g(n) &\text{if} ~ n \le k \\ f(n - k) &\text{if} ~ n > k \end{cases}\end{matrix}$, its' obvious to prove $h$ is a one-to-one function from $N$ onto $A ~\bigcup~ B$.  

### Theorem 5.3.6  
If $A$ and $B$ are disjoint denumerable sets, then $A ~\bigcup~ B$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Let one-to-one correspondence function $f: A \rightarrow N$ and $g: B \rightarrow N$. Let $\begin{matrix}h(n)=\begin{cases} g(n) &\text{if} ~ n = 2k - 1, \exist k \in N \\ f(n) &\text{if} ~ n = 2k, \exist k \in N  \end{cases}\end{matrix}$, the rest is skip.    

### Theorem 5.3.7  
The set $Q$ of all rational numbers is denumerable. 
**Prove:** $Q^-$ and $Q^+$ are disjoint denumerable sets, then use Theorem 5.3.6 $Q^- ~\bigcup~ Q^+ ~ \bigcup ~ \{0\}= Q$ is also denumerable.

### Theorem 5.3.8  
Let $\mathscr{A}$ be a countable collection of countable sets. Then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable.   

### Corollary 5.3.9  
(a) If $\mathscr{A}$ is a finite pairwise disjoint family of denumerable sets, then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable.  
**Prove:** Let $\mathscr{A} = \{A_1,....,A_m\}, m \in N$, and repeat use Theorem 5.3.6 to prove $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable. Or use induction.  
(b) If $A$ and $B$ are countable sets, then $A ~\bigcup~ B$ is countable.  
(c) If $\mathscr{A}$ is a finite collection of countable sets, then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable.  
(d) If $\mathscr{A}$ is a denumerable family of countable sets, then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable.  

### Exercises  
9. Use the theorems of this section to prove that  
(a) an infinite subset of a denumerable set is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Use Theorem 5.3.2, we could have an infinite subset of countable set is also countable, then this set must be denumerable.  
(b) if $A$ is a countable subset of an uncountalbe set $B$, then $B - A$ is uncountable.  
**Prove:** Suppose $B - A$ is countable, then $A ~\bigcup~ B - A$ is also countable, this is a contradiction. Thus $B - A$ is uncountable.  
(c) $Q ~\bigcap~ (1, 2)$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** $Q ~\bigcap~ (1, 2)$ is infinite and is a subset of $Q$. $Q$ is also denumerable, use (a) we have $Q ~\bigcap~ (1, 2)$ is denumerable.  

11. Prove that if $\{B_i: i \in N\}$ is a denumerable family of pairwise disjoint distinct finite sets, then $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** See Theorem 5.3.8.  

13. Prove that each set is uncountable.  
(a) the set of irrationals.  
**Prove:** Let $I$ denote the set of irrationals. $I = R - Q$, $R$ is uncountable and $Q$ is denumerable, use Exercises $9$ (b) we have $I$ is uncountable.  
(b) $(1, 2) ~\bigcup~ \{2^n: n \in N\}$.  
(c) $\{(x, y) \in R * R: x^2 + y^2 < 1\}$.  
(d) $R * N$.  

14. (a) Let $S$ be the set of all sequences of $0'$s and $1'$s. For example, $101010....., 10011010001...,$ and $011111....$ are in $S$. Using a proof similar to that for Theorem 5.2.4, show that $S$ is uncountable.  
(b) For each $n \in N$, let $T_n$ be the set of all sequences in $S$ with exactly $n 1'$s. Prove that $T_n$ is denumerable for $n \in N$.  
(c) Let $T = \bigcup\limits_{k = 1}^{\infty} T_k$. Use a counting process similar to that described in the discussion of Theorem 5.3.1 to show that $T$ is denumerable.  

15.  Let $A$ be a denumerable set. Prove that  
(a) the set $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~} \widehat{B} = 1\}$ of all one-element subsets of $A$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Let $f: B \rightarrow \{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~} \widehat{B} = 1\}, f(x) = \{x\}$. $f$ is a one-to-one correspondence function, thus $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~} \widehat{B} = 1\}$ is denumerable.  
(b) the set $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  \widehat{B} = 2\}$ of all one-element subsets of $A$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Suppose $f$ is one-to-one function from $A$ onto $N$. Let $g:\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  \widehat{B} = 2\} \rightarrow N, g(\{x, y\}) = m * n, m = f(x)th \text{~primer~ number}, n = f(y)th \text{~primer~ number}$. And $Rng(g) \approx N$, then g is a one-to-one correspondence function, $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  \widehat{B} = 2\}$ is denumerable.   
(c) for every $k \in N$, $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  \widehat{B} = k\}$ is denumerable.  
**Prove:** Simliar to (b), $g$ has $k$ times primer number.  
(d) the set $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  B \text{~is~finite}\}$ of all finite susbsets of $A$ is denumerable. 
**Prove:** $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  B \text{~is~finite}\} = \bigcup\limits_{k \in N} \{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  \widehat{B} = k\}$, use Corollary 5.3.9 (c) we could know that $\{B:B \subseteq A \text{~and~}  B \text{~is~finite}\}$ is denumerable.  

## 5.4 The Ordering of Cardinal Numbers  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $A$ and $B$ be sets. Then $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$ if $A \approx B$; otherwise, $\widehat{A} \ne \widehat{B}$. $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ if there exists a one-to-one function $f: A \rightarrow B$. $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ if $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{A} \ne \widehat{B}$.  

### Theorem 5.4.1  
For sets $A, B$ and $C$,  
(a) $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{A}$.  
(b) if $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} = \widehat{C}$ ,then $\widehat{A} = \widehat{C}$.  
(c) if $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{C}$, then $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{C}$.  
(d) $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ iff $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ or $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$.  
(e) if $A \subseteq B$, then $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$.  
(f) $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ iff there is a subset $W$ of $B$ such that $\widehat{W} = \widehat{A}$.  
**Prove:** Use (d), we have $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ or $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$. If $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$, let $W = Rng(f) \subseteq B$, $f$ is one-to-one function from $A$ to $B$. And $f$ is also a one-to-one function from $A$ onto $W$, then $\widehat{W} = \widehat{A}$. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 5.4.2  
(a) For $m, n \in N ~\bigcup~ \{0\}$, if $m < n$ as integers, then $m < n$ as finite cardinals.  
(b) Every finite cardinal is less than $\aleph_0$.  
**Prove:** Suppose a finite cardinal number $k \in N$, and $f(x) = x, f: N_k \rightarrow N$, $f$ is a one-to-one function, $k + 1 \in N, k + 1 \notin N_k \Rightarrow N_k \not\approx N$, thus every finite cardinal is less than $\aleph_0$.  
(c) The cardinal $\aleph_0$ is less than the cardinal $c$.  
**Prove:** $R \approx (0, 1)$ and $N \subseteq R$, we have $\widehat{N} \le \widehat{R}$. Obviously $N \not\approx R$, thus the cardinal $\aleph_0$ is less than the cardinal $c$.  

### Theorem 5.4.3 Cantor's Theorem  
For every set $A$, $\widehat{A} < \widehat{P(A)}$.  

### Theorem 5.4.4 Cantor-Schroder-Bernstein Theorem  
If $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{A}$, then $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$.  

### Theorem 5.4.5  
$\widehat{P(N)} = c$  

### Theorem 5.4.6  
(a) if $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$, then $\widehat{B} \not< \widehat{A}$.  
**Prove:** $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ iff $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ or $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$. Obviously, $\widehat{A} = \widehat{B} \rightarrow \widehat{B} \not< \widehat{A}$ and $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B} \rightarrow \widehat{B} \not< \widehat{A}$.
(b) if $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} < \widehat{C}$, then $\widehat{A} < \widehat{C}$.  
(c) if $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{C}$, then $\widehat{A} < \widehat{C}$.  
(d) if $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}$ and $\widehat{B} < \widehat{C}$, then $\widehat{A} < \widehat{C}$.  

### Exercises  
4. State whether each of the following is true or false. For each false statement, give a counterexample.  
(c) $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{B}$ implies $\widehat{P(A)} \le \widehat{P(B)}$.  
**Prove:** Suppose $f$ is the one-to-one function from $A$ to $B$, and let $g: P(A) \rightarrow P(B), g(a) = \{f(x): x \in a\}$. $g$ is a one-to-one function from $P(A)$ to $P(B)$. The rest is skip.  
(f) $\widehat{P(N)} \le \widehat{P(R)}$.  
**Prove:** $\widehat{P(N)} = \widehat{R} < \widehat{P(R)} \Rightarrow \widehat{P(N)} \le \widehat{P(R)}$.  

5. Prove that there is no largest cardinal number.  
**Prove:** If there is a largest cardinal number, and suppose the set $A$ has the largest cardinal number. Then use Cantor's Theorem, we have $\widehat{A} < \widehat{P(A)}$, this is a contradiction. Closed.  

10. Prove that if there is a function $f: A \rightarrow N$ that is one-to-one, then $A$ is countable.  
**Prove:** Let $B = Rng(f) \subseteq N$, $A \approx B \Rightarrow \widehat{A} = \widehat{B} \le \widehat{N}$, then $A$ is countable.  

16. Consider the family $\mathscr{X} = \{f: f \text{~is a function from~} [0, 1] \text{~to~} [0, 1]\}$.  
(a) Prove that there is no bijection from $[0, 1]$ to $\mathscr{X}$.  
**Prove:** For each $L \subseteq [0, 1]$, we could have a set $S = \{f: f \text{~is a function from [0, 1] to L}\}$, now another set $F = \{h: h \text{~is one of function in every~} S \text{~ for every L~}\}$. $F \approx P([0, 1])$ and $F \subseteq \mathscr{X}$, thus $\widehat{[0, 1]} < \widehat{P([0, 1])} = \widehat{F} \le \widehat{\mathscr{X}} \Rightarrow \widehat{[0, 1]} < \widehat{\mathscr{X}}$. The rest is skip.  
(b) Show that $\mathscr{X}$ is uncountable by showing that $\mathscr{X}$ has a subset equivalent to $[0, 1]$.  
**Prove:** Let $S = \{f: f \text{~is a function from [0, 1] to \{x\}~}, x \in R\}$, $S \subset \mathscr{X}$ and $S \approx [0, 1]$. The rest is skip.  

## Comparability and the Axiom of Choice  
### Content  
* The Axiom of Choice: If $\mathscr{A}$ is any collection of nonempty sets, then there exists a fucntion $F$(called a choice function or choice rule) from $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ such that for every $A \in \mathscr{A}, F(A) \in A$.  
### Theorem 5.5.1 The Comparability Theorem  
If $A$ and $B$ are two sets, then $\widehat{A} < \widehat{B}, \widehat{A} = \widehat{B}$, or $\widehat{B} < \widehat{A}$.  

### Lemma 5.5.2  
Let $\{A_i: i \in N\}$ be a denumerable family of sets. For each $i \in N$, let $B_i = A_i - (\bigcup\limits_{k = 1}^{i - 1} A_k)$. Then $\{B_i:i \in N\}$ is a denumerable family of pairwise disjoint sets such that $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} A_i = \bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i$.  

### Theorem 5.3.8(restate)  
Let $\mathscr{A}$ be a countable collection of countable sets. Then $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is countable.  
**Prove:** If some $A \in \mathscr{A}$ are not disjoint, use Lemma 5.5.2 have another $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i$ which $B_i$ are pairwise disjoint and $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i = \bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$. Suppose $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i = \{B_1,....,B_n...\}$ is denumerable and all $B_n \in \bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i$ are disjoint denumerable, for every $B_n = \{b^1_n,.....b^m_n....\}$, then $\bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i = \{b^1_1,.....b^m_1....b^n_n...\}$. Let function $f: N * N \rightarrow \bigcup\limits_{i \in N} B_i$, and $f((n, m)) = b^m_n$, it's easy to prove $f$ is one-to-one correspondence function. Then use Theorem 5.2.3 $\bigcup\limits_{A \in \mathscr{A}} A$ is also countable. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 5.5.3  
If there exists a function from a set $A$ onto $B$, then $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{A}$.  
**Prove:** Let $f$ denote this function. If $f^{-1}(B) = A$, and $\forall x \in B, f^{-1}(\{x\}) = Y \subset A$. Let $g:B \rightarrow A, g(x)$ is one of elements in $f^{-1}(\{x\})$. Obviously, $g$ is a one-to-one function, thus $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{A}$.  

### Theorem 5.5.4  
Every infinite set $A$ has a denumerable subset.  
**Prove:** Suppose $A$ is an infinite set. Let $a_1 \in A$ and $\{a_1\} \subset A$. Use The Axiom of Choice, we could has a such function $g(1) = a_1, g(2) \ne a_1$ and $g(2) = a_2 \in A$, $g(n) \ne a_1,a_2.....a_{n - 1}$ and $g(n) = a_n \in A$. $\{a_1,a_2,....a_n....\}$ is a denumerable subset of $A$.  

### Corollary 5.5.5  
A nonempty set $A$ is countable iff there exists a function from $N$ onto $A$.  
**Prove:** If there exists a function from $N$ onto $A$, use Theorem 5.5.3, we have $\widehat{A} \le \widehat{N}$, thus $A$ is countable by (f) of Theorem 5.4.1. The rest is skip.  

### Exercises  
2. (a) Prove this partial converse of Theorem 5.5.3 without using the Axiom of Choice: Let $A$ and $B$ be sets with $B \ne \varnothing$. If $\widehat{B} \le \widehat{A}$, then there exists $g: A \rightarrow B$ that is onto $B$.  
**Prove:** Let $f: B \stackrel{1-1}{\longrightarrow} A$ and $Rng(f) = C \subseteq A$. Let $\begin{matrix}g(a)=\begin{cases}f^{-1}(a),&\text{if} ~ a \in C \\ b \in B,&\text{if} ~ a \in A - C\end{cases}\end{matrix}$ and $g$ is a function from $A$ onto $B$. The rest is skip.  
(b) Use the Axiom of Choice to prove that if there exists $g: A \stackrel{onto}{\longrightarrow} B$, then there exists a function $g: B \stackrel{1-1}{\longrightarrow} A$.  

3. Let $A$ and $B$ be any two nonempty sets. Prove that there exists $f: A \rightarrow B$ that has at least one of these properties: (i) $f$ is one-to-one. (ii) $f$ is onto $B$.  
**Prove:** Suppose (i) and (ii) are not true. If (ii) is false, use Theorem 5.5.3 and the (b) of Exercises 2, we could get $\widehat{B} \ge \widehat{A} \Rightarrow f$ is one-to-one, which is a contradiction with (i). The rest is skip.  

4. Prove that  
(a) if $f: A \rightarrow B$, then $\widehat{Rng(f)} \le \widehat{A}$.  
(b) for every sequence $x$, the range of $x$ is a countable set.  

5. Suppose that $A$ is a denumerable set and $B$ is an infinite subset of $A$. Prove that $A \approx B$.  
**Prove:** Since $A$ is a denumerable set, we have a one-to-one function $f$ from $A$ onto $N$. Let $g: B \rightarrow N$, $g(b) = f(b)$, and $Rng(g) = K$. Let $h: N \rightarrow Rng(g)$, $h(n)$ is the $n$th samllest number in $Rng(g)$. Thus we have $Rng(g) \approx N \Rightarrow B \approx N$. The rest is skip.  

6. Suppose that $\widehat{B} < \widehat{C}$ and $\widehat{B} \not\le \widehat{A}$. Prove that $\widehat{A} < \widehat{C}$.  

8. Let $A$ be an infinite set. Prove that $A$ is equivalent to a proper subset of $A$.  
**Prove:** Let $x \in A$. $A - x \subset A$ and has a denumerable set $S \subset A - x$. Also $S ~\bigcup~ \{x\} \subset A$ and $S ~\bigcup~ \{x\} \approx S$. Consider $A - x/S ~\bigcup~ S = A - x$ and $A - x/S ~\bigcup~ (S ~\bigcup~ \{x\})= A$. Obviously, $A - x/S \approx A - x/S$, then $S ~\bigcup~ \{x\} \approx S$. Thus we have $A - x \approx A$.  
