# Concepts of Algebra    
## 6.1 Algebraic Structures  
### Conetent  
* Definition 1  
Let $A$ be a nonempty set. $A$ binary operation $*$ on A is a function from $A \times A$ to $A$. The notation for the image of $(x, y) \in A \times A$ is $x * y$ under the operation $*$.  
* Definiton 2  
An algebraic system (or algebraic structure) is a non-empty set $A$ with collection of one or more operations on $A$ and a (possibly empty) collection of relations on $A$.  
* Defintion 3  
Let $(A, *)$ be an algebraic system. Let $B$ be a subset of $A$. We say $B$ is closed under the operation $*$ if $x * y \in B$ for all $x, y \in B$. Note: for an algebraic system $(A, *)$ the set A is closed under $*$ beacuse the operation $*$ is a function that maps to $A$.   
* Definition 4  
Let $(A, *)$ be an algebraic system. Then $*$ is commutative on $A$ if for all $x, y \in A, x * y = y * x$. $*$ is associative on $A$ if for all $x, y, z \in A, (x * y) * z = x * (y * z)$. An element $e$ of $A$ is an identity element for $*$ if for all $x \in A$, $x * e = e * x = x$. If $A$ has an identity element $e$ and if $a$ and $b$ are in $A$, then $b$ is an inverse of $a$ if $a * b = b * a = e$. In this case, $a$ would be also ben an inverse of $b$.  
* Definition 5  
Let $a$ be a nonzero element of $(Z_m, *)$. If $ab = 0$ for some $b \ne 0$, then we say $a$(and also $b$) is a divisor of zero. If $a$ has a multiplicative inverse in $Z_m$, then $a$ is called a unit $Z_m$. The set of all units in $Z_m$ is denoted $U_m$.  

### Theorem 6.1.1  
Let $(A, *)$ be an algebraic structure.  
(a) $(A, *)$ has at most one identity element.  
(b) Suppose that $*$ is associative with identity $e$. If $a \in A$ has an inverse, then $a$ has only one inverse.  
**Prove:** Suppose $a$ has two different inverse elements $b, c$. Then $b * a * c = e * c = c$ and $b * a * c = b * e = b \Rightarrow b = b * a * c = c \Rightarrow b = c$ which is a contradiction. Closed.  

### Theorem 6.1.2  
(a) $(Z_m, +_m)$ is an algebraic system that is associative and commutative with identity element $0$. Every element has an inverse.  
(b) $(Z_m, *_m)$ is an algebraic system that is associative and commutative. If $m > 1$, the system has identity element 1.  

### Theorem 6.1.3  
Let $m, a$ be natural numbers with $a < m$. Then  
(a) $a$ is a unit in $(Z_m, *)$ iff $a, m$ are relatively prime.  
**Prove**: If $a$ is a unit, then $a * b = m * n + 1$ for some natural number $b, n$. If $a, m$ have a smallest common factor $p > 1$, then $a * b = m * n + 1 \Rightarrow a * b - m - n = 1 \Rightarrow p(a^o * b - m^o * n) = 1$. Obviously, $p \ne 1, (a^o * b - m^o * n) \ne 1$, which is a contradiction. The rest is skip.  
(b) $a$ is a divisor of zero in $(Z_m, *)$ iff $a, m$ are not relatively prime.  
**Prove:** If $a$ is a divisor of zero in $(Z_m, *)$, then $a * b = m * n$ for some natural number $b \in Z_m, b < m$. $a * b = m * n \Rightarrow a * (b / m) = n$. If $b ,m$ have some common prime factors, then $a * (b / m) = n \Rightarrow a * (b^o / m^o) = n$ which $b^o / m^o$ is the simplest form of $b / m$ and $b^o, m^o$ are relatively prime. If $a, m$ are relatively prime, then $a, m^o$ are also relatively prime. Thus $a * (b / m)$ is a fraction number and $n$ is a integer number, which is a contradiction in the status of $b < m$ (Note if $b = m, n = a \Rightarrow a * b = m * n$). The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 6.1.4  
For every natural number $m > 1$, the system $(U_m, *)$ is an algebraic system, has identity element 1, is associative, and is commutative. Furthermore, every element in $U_m$ has a multiplicative inverse.  

### Exercises  
13. Suppose $m \in N$ and $m > 2$. Prove that $1$ and $m - 1$ are distinct units in $(Z_m, *)$.  
**Prove:** If $m > 2$, then $m - 1 > 1$ and $m \ne 1$. $m - 1 * 1 = m - 1$ and $m - 1$ itself be $1$(mod $m$). Closed.  

## 6.2 Groups  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
$(G, \circ)$ is a group if $(G, \circ)$ is an algebraic system such that  
(i) the opeartion $\circ$ is associative on $G$.  
(ii) there is an identity element $e$ in $G$ for $\circ$.  
(iii) every $x \in G$ has an inverse $x^{-1}$ in $G$.  
If $G$ is a finite set, the order of the group is the number of element in $G$. When $G$ is infinite, the group has infinite order.  

* Definition 2  
A group $G$ is abelian if the group operation is commutative.  

* Definition 3  
Let $n$ be a natural number. The group of all permutations of $N_n$ is called the symmetric group on $n$ symbols and is designated by $S_n$.  

### Theorem 6.2.1  
Let $m$ be a natural number. Then  
(a) $(Z_m, +)$ is a group of order $m$ with identity $0$.  
(b) if $m > 1$, $(U_m, *)$ is a group with identity $1$.  

### Theorem 6.2.2  
Let $A$ be a nonempty set. The set of all permutations on $A$ with the operation of function composition is a group, called the group of permutations of $A$.  

### Theorem 6.2.3  
Let $G$ be a group with identity $e$, For all $a, b$ and $c$ in $G$,  
(a) $(a^{-1})^{-1} = a$.  
(b) $(ab)^{-1} = b^{-1}a^{-1}$.  
(c) if $ac = bc$, then $a = b$(Right Cancellation Law).  
(d) if $ca = cb$, then $a = b$(Left Cancellation Law).  

### Theorem 6.2.4  
Let $G$ be a group with identity $e$. For every $a \in G$.  
(a) the function $\lambda_a:G \rightarrow G$, where $\lambda_a(x) = ax$ for each $x \in G$, is a permutation of $G$.  
**Prove:** $\forall x, y \in G, \lambda_a(x) = \lambda_a(y) \Rightarrow ax = ay$, use $(d)$ of Theorem 6.2.3 we get $x = y$, then $\lambda_a$ is a one-to-one function. Suppose $y \in G$, because $a, a^{-1} \in G$, we have $a^{-1}y \in G$. Let $x = a^{-1}y \Rightarrow \lambda_a(x) = aa^{-1}y = y$, thus $\lambda_a$ is a permutation of $G$.  
(b) the function $\rho_a:G \rightarrow G$, where $\rho_a(x) = xa$ for each $x \in G$, is a permutation of $G$.  

### Exercises  
10. Let $G$ be a group. Prove that if $a^2 = e$ for all $a \in G$, then $G$ is abelian.  
**Prove:** $\forall a\in G, a^2 = e \Rightarrow aaa^{-1} = ea^{-1} \Rightarrow a = a^{-1}$. Suppose $b$ is also in $G$. $ab = a^{-1}b^{-1} = (ba)^{-1} = ba$. Closed.  

12. Let $G$ be a group. Prove that  
(a) $G$ is abelian iff $a^2b^2 = (ab)^2$ for all $a, b \in G$.  
**Prove:** If $a^2b^2 = (ab)^2$, we have $aabb = abab$. According to Left Cancellation Law, then we have $abb = bab \Rightarrow abbb^{-1} = babb^{-1} \Rightarrow ab = ba$. The rest is skip.  
(b) $G$ is abelian iff $a^nb^n = (ab)^n$ for all $n \in N$ and $a, b \in G$.  
**Prove:** If $a^nb^n = (ab)^n$ for all $n \in N$ and $a, b \in G$, and suppose $n > 1$, note when $n = 1$, $G$ may not be abelian. $a(a^{n - 1}b^{n - 1})b = (ab)^{n - 1}(ab)$, let $c = a^{n - 1}b^{n - 1} = (ab)^{n - 1}, c \in G$, then we have $acb = cab \Rightarrow acbb^{-1} = cabb^{-1} \Rightarrow ac = ca$. Because $a,b$ are arbitrary, $c$ is also arbitrary. Then $G$ is abelian.  

16. Let $m$ be a prime natural number and $a \in (U_m, *)$. Prove that $a = a^{-1}$ iff $a = 1$ or $a = m - 1$.  
**Prove:** If $a = 1$, $a * a = 1 \Rightarrow a^{-1} = 1 = a$. If $a = m - 1, aa = m^2 + 2m - 1 = 1$(mod $m$) $\Rightarrow a^{-1} = m - 1 = a$. If $a = a^{-1} \Rightarrow aa = e = 1(\text{mod~m}) \Rightarrow a^2 = mn - 1, n \in Z, n \ne 0 \Rightarrow a^2 - 1 = mn \Rightarrow (a - 1)(a + 1) = mn \Rightarrow m\text{~is~divisible~by~} a - 1 \text{~or~} a + 1$. If $a - 1$ divides $m$, $a - 1$ $-1 \le a - 1 < m - 2$, we have $a - 1 = 0 \Rightarrow a = 1$. If $a + 1$ divides $m$, $1 \le a + 1 \le m \Rightarrow a = m - 1$.  

## 6.3 Subgroups  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $(G, *)$ be a group and $H$ a subset of $G$. Then $(H, *)$ is a subgroup of $G$ if $(H, *)$ is a group.  
* Definition 2  
Let $G$ be a group and $a \in G$. Then $\langle a \rangle = \{a^n:n \in Z\}$ is called the cyclic subgroup generated by $a$. The order of the element $a$ is the order of the subgroup $\langle a \rangle$. If $\langle a \rangle$ is an infinite set, we say $a$ has infinite order.  
* Definition 3  
Let $G$ be a group. If there is an element $a \in G$ such that $\langle a \rangle = G$, then we say $G$ is a cyclic group. Any element $a$ of $G$ such that $\langle a \rangle = G$ is called a generator for $G$.  

### Theorem 6.3.1  
(a) The identity of $H$ is the identity $e$ of $G$.  
(b) If $x \in H$, the inverse of $x$ in $H$ is its inverse in $G$.  

### Theorem 6.3.2  
Let $G$ be a group. A subset $H$ of $G$ is a group iff $H$ is nonempty and for all $a, b \in H, ab^{-1} \in H$.  
**Prove:** If $H$ is nonempty and for all $a, b \in H, ab^{-1} \in H$, let $b = a$ then $aa^{-1} = e \in H$. Because $H \subseteq G$, the opeartion $\circ$ is also associative on $H$. $\forall a \in H$ and $e \in H$, $ea^{-1} \in H \Rightarrow a^{-1} \in H$. Thus $H$ is a group. The rest is skip.  

### Theorem 6.3.3  
If $G$ is a group and $a \in G$, then $\{a^n:n \in Z\}$, is an abelian subgroup of $G$.  

### Theorem 6.3.4  
Let $G$ be a group and $a$ be an element of $G$ with order $r$. Then $r$ is the smallest positive integer such that $a^r = e$, the identity, and $\langle a \rangle = \{e,a,a^2,......,a^{r - 1}\}$.  

## 6.4 Operation Preserving Maps  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
Let $(A, \circ)$ and $(B, *)$ be algebraic systems and $f$ be a function from $A$ to $B$. Then $f$ is operation preserving (OP) if for all $x, y \in A$, $f(x \circ y) = f(x) * f(y)$.  
* Definition 2  
Let $(G, \circ)$ and $(H, *)$ be groups. An OP mapping $h: (G, \circ) \rightarrow (H, *)$ is called a homomorphism from $(G, \circ)$ to $(H, *)$. The range of $h$ is called the homomorphic image of $(G, \circ)$ under $h$.  
* Definition 3  
Let $(G, \circ)$ and $(H, *)$ be groups. A homomorphism $h: (G, \circ) \rightarrow (H, *)$ that is one-to-one and onto $K$ is called an isomorphism. If $h$ is an isomorphism, we say $(G, \circ)$ and $(H, *)$ are isomorphic.  
* Definition 4  
Groups whose elements are some permutations of a set are called permutation groups.  

### Theorem 6.4.1  
Let $f$ be an OP map from $(A, \circ)$ to $(B, *)$.  
(a) $(Rng(f), *)$ is an algebraic system.  
(b) If $f$ is onto $B$ and $\circ$ is associative on $A$, then $*$ is associative on $B$.  
(c) If $f$ is onto $B$ and $\circ$ is commutative on $A$, then $*$ is commutative on $B$.  
(d) If $f$ is onto $B$ and $e$ is the identity for $A$, then $f(e)$ is the identity for $B$.  
(e) If $x$ has an inverser in $A$, then $f(x)$ has an inverse in $B$ and $(f(x))^{-1} = f(x^{-1})$.  
**Prove:** If $x$ has an inverser in $A$, then identity element $e$ is also in $A$. $f(x \circ e) = f(x) * f(e) = f(x)$, thus $f(e)$ is a identity element in $B$ under operation $*$. $f(x \circ x^{-1}) = f(x) * f(x^{-1}) = f(e) \Rightarrow (f(x))^{-1} = f(x^{-1})$. Closed.  

### Theorem 6.4.2  
Let $(G, \circ)$ and $(K, *)$ be groups. If $f: (G, \circ) \rightarrow (K, *)$ is a homomorphism, then $(Rng(f), *)$ is a subgroup of $(K, *)$. Furthermore, if the operation $\circ$ is commutative, then $*$ is a commutative operation on $Rng(f)$. In other words,  
(a) the homomorphic image of a group is a group, and  
(b) the homomorphic image of an abelian group is an abelian group.  

### Theorem 6.4.3  
The relation of being isomorphic is an equivalence relation on the class of all groups.  
**Prove:** Let $(G, \circ), (H, +)$ and $(K, *)$ be groups. i. Select $K$ as example, let $f(x) = x$, then $\forall x, y \in K, f(x * y) = x * y = f(x) * f(y).$ So the relation of being isomorphic is relexive; ii. Suppose $(G, \circ), (H, +)$ are isomorphic, and $h: G \rightarrow H$ is a correspondence function and homomorphic. Let $f = h^{-1}, f$ is also a correspondence function, and we will show that $f$ is homomorphic. $\forall x, y \in H, f(x) = a, f(y) = b \in G$ and we have $h(a) = x, h(b) = y$. Then $f(x + y) = f(h(a \circ b)) = a \circ b = f(x) \circ f(y)$. So the relation of being isomorphic is symmetrical; iii. the proof of being associative is skip.  

### Theorem 6.4.4 Cayley's Theorem  
Every group $G$ is isomorphic to a permutation group.  
**Prove:** Use (a) of Theorem 6.2.4, we could define the function $\lambda_a:G \rightarrow G$, where $\forall a \in G, \lambda_a(x) = ax$ for each $x \in G$, is a permutation of $G$. Let $H = \{\lambda_a : a \in G\}$, then use Theorem 6.2.2, $(H, *)$ which $*$ is the operation of function composition is a permutation group. Suppose $h: G \rightarrow H, h(x) = \lambda_x$, clearly the function $h$ is a correspondence fucntion. Suppose $a, b \in G, h(ab) = \lambda_{(ab)} = abx = \lambda_a(\lambda_b(x)) = h(a)(h(b))$, and $h$ is also an OP map. Closed.  

### Exercises  
4. Let $\mathscr{P}$ be the set of all real-valued integrable functions defined on the interval $[a, b]$. Then $(\mathscr{P}, +)$ is an algebraic structure, where $+$ is the addition of functions. Definie $I:(\mathscr{P}, +) \rightarrow (R, +)$ by $I(f) = \int_{a}^{b}{f(x)dx}$. Verify that $I$ is an OP map.  
**Prove:** $I(f + h) = \int_{a}^{b}{(g + h)(x)dx} = \int_{a}^{b}{g(x)dx} + \int_{a}^{b}{h(x)dx} = I(f) + I(h)$. So $I$ is an OP map.  

13. (a) Prove that the function $f: Z_{18} \rightarrow Z_{24}$ given by $f(x) = 4x$ is well defined and is a homomorphism from $(Z_{18}, +)$ to $(Z_{24}, +)$.  
(b) Find $Rng(f)$, and give the operation table for this subgroup of $Z_{12}$.  

## Rings and Fields  
### Content  
* Definition 1  
A ring $(R, +, *)$ is a set $R$ together with two binary operations $+$ and $*$ that satisfy the following axioms:  
(1) $(R, +)$ is an abelian group. For all $a, b, c \in R$,  
(a) there is an identity element $0 \in R$.  
(b) for every $a \in R$, there is an additive inverse $-a \in R$.  
(c) the operation $+$ is associative.  
(d) the operation $+$ is commutative.  
(2) The operation $*$ is associative.  
(3) The multiplication operation is distributive over addition. For all $a, b, c \in R, a * (b + c) = (a * b) + (a * c)$ and $(a + b) * c = (a * c) + (b * c)$.  
* Definition 2  
Let $(R, +, *)$ and $(S, \bigoplus, \bigotimes)$ be rings. A function $h: R \rightarrow S$ is a ring homomorphism if for all $a, b \in R$, $h(a + b) = h(a) \bigoplus h(b)$ and $h(a * b) = h(a) \bigotimes h(b)$. If $h$ is one-to-one and onto $S$, then $h$ is a ring isomorphism.  
* Definition 3  
Let $(R, +, *)$ be a ring. $(R, +, *)$ is a ring with unity if there is an element $1 \in R$ such that for all $a \in R, a * 1 = 1 * a = a$. $(R, +, *)$ is a commutative ring if for all $a, b \in R, a * b = b * a$. $(R, +, *)$ is an integral domain if $R$ is a commutative ring with unity element $1, 1 \ne 0$, and $R$ has no divisors of zeros.  
* Definition 4  
The ring $(R, +, *)$ is a field if $(R, +, *)$ is an integral domain and $(R - \{0\}, +, *)$ is an abelian group. A filed can also be described as an algebraic structure $(R, +, *)$ such that (i) $(R, +)$ is an abelian group with identity $0$. (ii) $(R - \{0\}, *)$ is an abelian group with identity $1$. (iii) for all $a, b, c \in R, a * (b + c) = (a * b) + (a * c).$ (iv) $0 \ne 1$.  

### Theorem 6.5.1  
For every $m \in N, (Z_m, +, *)$ is a ring.  

### Theorem 6.5.2  
Let $(R, +, *)$ be a ring, and $a, b, c \in R$. Then  
(a) the additive identity of R is unique.  
(b) additive inverse of elements of R are unique.  
**Prove:** Suppose $\forall a \in R$, we have $b, c$ inverse elements of $a$. $b + a + c = (a + b) + c = c$ and $b + a + c = b + (a + c) = b$, then $b = c$. Closed.  
(c) left and right cancellation hold in $R$.  
(d) $-(-a) = a$ and $-(a + b) = (-a) + (-b)$.  
**Prove:** Because $-a + a = 0$, then the inverse element of $-a$ is $a$, thus $-(-a) = a$. The inverse element of $-(a + b)$ is $-(-(a + b)) = a + b$, and because $a + b + (-a) + (-b) = 0$, the inverse element of $a + b$ is $(-a) + (-b)$, and $-(a + b)$ is also the inverse element of $a + b$, thus $-(a + b) = (-a) + (-b)$.  
(e) for all integers $m$ and $n, m(a + b) = ma + mb, (m + n)a = ma + na$, and $m(na) = (mn)a$.  

### Theorem 6.5.3  
Let $(R, +, *)$ be a ring with zero element 0, and $a, b, c \in R$.  
(a) $0 * a = a * 0 = 0$.  
**Prove:** $0 * a + 0 * a = (0 + 0) * a = 0 * a + 0 \Rightarrow 0 * a + 0 * a = 0 * a + 0$, use right cancellation, we have $0 * a = 0$.  
(b) $a * (-b) = (-a) * b = -(a * b)$.  
**Prove:** $a * (-b) + a * b = (b + (-b)) * a = 0$, thus $a * (-b)$ is the inverse element of $a * b$, then $a * (-b) = -(a * b)$. And like as $a * (-b)$, we could get $(-a) * b$ is the inverse element of $a * b$, which means that $a * (-b) = (-a) * b = -(a * b)$.  
(c) $(-a) * (-b) = a * b$.  
(d) $a * (b - c) = a * b - a * c$ and $(a - b) * c = a * c - b * c$.  

### Theorem 6.5.4  
(a) For every natural number $m > 1$, the system $(Z_m, +, *)$ is a commutative ring with unity.  
(b) The ring $(Z_m, +, *)$ is an integral domain iff $m$ is prime.  

### Theorem 6.5.5  
Let $(R, +, *)$ be an integral domain and $a, b, c \in R$ with $a \ne 0$. If $a * b = a * c$, then $b = c$, and if $b * a = c * a$, then $b = c$.  

### Theorem 6.5.6  
The ring $(Z_m, +, *)$ is a field iff $m$ is prime.  
